    DEPARTMENT OF           City of Los Angeles                      EXECUTIVE OFFICES
       CITY PLANNING                                           200 N. SPRING STREET, ROOM 525
                                          CALIFORNIA            LOS ANGELES, CA 90012-4801
     COMMISSION OFFICE
         (213) 978-1300                   KAREN BASS                     (213) 978-1271

CITY PLANNING COMMISSION                                MAYOR     VINCENT P. BERTONI, AICP

      MONIQUE LAWSHE                                                              DIRECTOR

                 PRESIDENT                                            KEVIN J. KELLER, AICP

        CAROLINE CHOE                                                       EXECUTIVE OFFICER
          VICE-PRESIDENT
                                                                     SHANA M.M. BONSTIN
       PRISCILLA CHAVEZ
         MARTINA DIAZ                                                        DEPUTY DIRECTOR
       SARAH JOHNSON
         PHYLLIS KLEIN                                               HAYDEE URITA-LOPEZ

      BRIAN ROSENSTEIN                                                       DEPUTY DIRECTOR
        JACOB SAITMAN
                                                                     ARTHI L. VARMA, AICP
     ELIZABETH ZAMORA
                                                                             DEPUTY DIRECTOR

                                                                     LISA M. WEBBER, AICP

                                                                             DEPUTY DIRECTOR

                                                                        CRAIG R. WEBER

                                                                             DEPUTY DIRECTOR

February 18, 2026

Los Angeles City Council
c/o Office of the City Clerk
City Hall, Room 395
Los Angeles, California 90012

Attention: Planning and Land Use Management Committee (PLUM)

Dear Honorable Members,

REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS RELATIVE TO THE IMPACTS AND LOCAL
IMPLEMENTATION OF SENATE BILL (SB) 79 (CF 25-1083)

  I. RECOMMENDATIONS

    1. Instruct the Department of City Planning, in alignment with Approach C, to initiate a code
         amendment for either Option 1, 2, or 3 as described herein, to upzone single family and
         low-density zoned parcels that are located in Opportunity Stations and in higher and
         moderate opportunity sites ineligible for delay within Transit Oriented Development zones
         and areas citywide to facilitate local implementation of SB 79; as well as

    2. Instruct the Department of City Planning, to delay effectuation of SB 79 citywide, as
         explicitly allowed by SB 79, through the initiation of a delayed effectuation ordinance for
         all eligible criteria including lower opportunity areas, Very High Fire Hazard Severity
         Zones, sites and stations meeting capacity requirements, local historic resources, Sea
         Level Rise Areas, Industrial Employment Hubs, and sites more than one-mile walking
         distance from a station.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 2

  II. INTRODUCTION

Senate Bill (SB) 79, the Abundant and Affordable Homes Near Transit Act, was introduced by
Senator Scott Wiener and signed by Governor Gavin Newsom on October 10, 2025. The bill will
become effective on July 1, 2026. On November 4, 2025, the City Council adopted a motion
(Council File 25-1083), instructing various departments to prepare reports related to the SB 79
(Government Code Sections (GCS) 65912.155-162), including a request for several reports from
the Los Angeles City Planning (from here on referred to as "the Department"). On November 17,
2025, the Planning and Land Use Management (PLUM) Committee discussed the Department's
first report, dated November 13, 2025, on key SB 79 provisions and options for local
implementation. The subsequent PLUM Committee Report included several recommendations
and was adopted by the City Council on December 2, 2025. This report responds to instruction
#3 of the City Council's December 2, 2025 action:

                Instruct the DCP, based on the modeling analysis that will be completed and
                consistent with the instructions outlined in Recommendation No. 3f of the said
                PLUM Committee report, attached to the Council file, to report back on where and
                how the City may further delay effectuation of SB 79 through the potential adoption
                of upzoning ordinances alongside a delayed effectuation ordinance for certain
                areas, consistent with Approach C described in the DCP report dated November 13,
                2025.

Furthermore, this report responds directly to the PLUM Committee's discussion and direction to
focus any rezoning proposals in higher opportunity areas (including areas eligible for delayed
effectuation), particularly in areas with high quality transit, including historic districts, while
exempting lower opportunity areas (additional detail on the PLUM Committee's discussion can be
found in Section V of this report). A future report will respond to Item 4 in the PLUM Committee
Report dated November 17, 2025, requesting recommendations associated with the development
of a local TOD Alternative Plan or "Alt Plan").

 III. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This report provides recommendations for the implementation of SB 79 that are informed by staff
analysis on the composition of SB 79 eligible station areas (defined as Transit Oriented
Development zones in the bill and hereon referred to as "TOD zones"); and preliminary modeling
executed by the City's consultant comparing SB 79 potential housing capacity to the City's present
capacity. These initial results of the model will continue to be refined and interpreted based on
staff analysis and agency guidance. The report presents an analysis of local impacts at a station
and citywide level, explores eligibility for delayed effectuation, and recommends several Upzoning
Options for the City Council's consideration. Overall, the report elevates the bill's significant local
impacts and provides analysis to inform discussion on a local implementation pathway.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 3

Should the City choose to pursue a Delayed Effectuation Ordinance, which would temporarily
"delay" effectuation of the bill (until approx. 2030), only certain types of sites are eligible to be
"paused", including those that meet development minimums, are located in Very High Fire Hazard
Severity Zones (VHFHSZ), host local historic resources, or are classified as lower opportunity
neighborhoods in the Opportunity Area Maps created by CTCAC/HCD (GCS 65912.161(b)).
Within the delay period, Local Alternative Plans would need to be developed, analyzed as part of
the upcoming 7th cycle Housing Element, and adopted for the 141 potential stations located within
the city's boundaries. Areas not eligible for a temporary delay could become subject to the bill in
July or be rezoned to meet developent minimums. The Upzoning Options described herein would
enable the City to postpone implementation of SB 79 citywide and ensure residential growth is
consistent with priorities of the 2021-2029 Housing Element with variability on the scale of
intensity permitted.

The Upzoning Options presented by Planning were developed in response to the City Council's
December 2, 2025 instructions to the Department to report back with recommendations on an
upzoning code amendment in order to expand delayed effectuation of SB 79 to cover the entire
City, rather than only pausing the bill in currently eligible areas of the City. (More information on
delayed effectuation and approaches to local implementation may be found in Section V of this
report). Furthermore, the analysis and concepts articulated herein were further informed by PLUM
Committee deliberations that directed any city initiated upzoning to occur in higher opportunity
and transit rich areas, including sites that may host historic resources; to exempt lower opportunity
areas;1 and avoid concentrating added capacity in areas outside the city center where sites may
be ineligible for delayed effectuation.

The City Council also directed the Department to work with a consultant to model housing capacity
created by SB 79 and compare it to existing capacity available under present zoning rules and
housing incentive programs. Overall, the model found that the City's current zoning around TOD
zones permits the construction of almost three times as many units as that available under SB
79. However, this zoning capacity is concentrated around only a portion of the TOD zones, with
a focus on Downtown Los Angeles, Koreatown, Warner Center and North Hollywood, as well as
in areas with more multi-family zoning like South Los Angeles and East Hollywood. Approximately
a third of TOD zones permit more than half of the density and floor area available under SB 79
and would be eligible for delayed effectuation with its current zoning. Two-thirds of the City's TOD
zones, however, will fall short of SB 79 benchmarks.

In the short term, were the city to pursue a delayed effectuation ordinance, all lower opportunity
sites would be eligible for delay. Based on the analysis, 88% of the City's sites are currently
eligible for delayed effectuation. Areas ineligible for delay include ten Orange line stations in the
South and Northwest Valley, two Exposition Line Stations in West LA, three NoHo to Pasadena

1 Throughout this report, lower and moderate opportunity areas will be used to refer to lower or moderate resource
neighborhoods per the 2026 CTCAC/HCD Opportunity Area Maps. High opportunity area will be used to refer to high
and highest resource neighborhoods per the 2026 CTCAC/HCD Opportunity Area Maps.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 4

BRT Stations, ten other stations in the South Valley, Westchester, and Mid City areas of the City.
It is important to note that, in response to PLUM discussion and direction at the November 13,
2025 meeting as well as Council direction, the options presented herein do propose potential
upzoning on a portion of those sites that are currently eligible for delayed effectuation (as
described further below). However, each option may be modified to expand or reduce its
applicability, and potential upzoning may be further reduced to limit upzoning to the 12% of sites
that are currently ineligible for delay.

In response to City Council direction, the Department has prepared three, targeted Upzoning
Options to delay effectuation citywide until approximately 2030 so that the scale of housing
development opportunity created under SB 79 will occur in areas identified for growth and still
enable increases to restricted affordable housing through the city's value capture tools. A key
component of the Upzoning Options involves rezoning single family zones as well as some low-
density zones including duplex (R2), restricted density (RD) zones, and zones with densities less
than half of SB 79. Commercial and multifamily zones near SB 79 eligible transit stops already
offer density and floor area consistent with provisions SB 79. Given Los Angeles' development
pattern, over half of eligible SB 79 TOD zones are predominantly low-density, therefore upzoning
is needed to achieve a citywide delay in effectuation.

Table 1 below provides a brief summary of three options for an upzoning ordinance of single
family and low-density properties in SB 79 TOD zones that would allow the City to temporarily
delay effectuation of the bill (until approximately 2030). It is important to note that these three
Upzoning Options would be achieved by updating the recently adopted Citywide Housing
Incentive Program (CHIP) ordinance2 to include eligibility for single family properties and other
low-density residential properties in the Corridor Transition (CT) and Transit Oriented Incentive
Area (TOIA) incentive programs. In all three options rezoning would occur in areas deemed
"Opportunity Stations" or TOD zones composed of mostly higher and moderate opportunity area
census tracts, (which may include some lower opportunity census tracts). It is also important to
note that all three options include upzoning of some parcels in the Very High Fire Hazard Severity
Zones (VHFHSZ) non-hillside areas and offer limited incentives in historic areas. Additional details
on the objectives and implications of each Upzoning Option can be found in Section VIII of this
report.

2 Ordinance Number 188,477 and 188,478
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 5

Table 1. Summary of Upzoning Options to be Eligible for a Citywide Delayed Effectuation

                Option 1:                Option 2:3              Option 3:4

                CT Expansion in SB       TOIA Expansion in SB    TOIA Expansion in
                79 half-mile radius      79 half-mile radius of  SB 79 half-mile
                                         Operational Rail        radius

Description     CT incentives for        TOIA incentives for     TOIA incentives for
                                         single-family and low-  single-family and low-
                single-family and low-   density sites in        density sites in all
                                         Opportunity Stations    Opportunity Stations
                density sites in         near Operational Rail
                Opportunity Stations4                            + Option 1
                and in select5 High and  + Option 1

                Moderate Opportunity

                Census Tracts

Density         4-16 units               Limited by FAR6         Limited by FAR6
FAR7                                                             Up to 4.5:1
Height7         Incremental up to 2.9:1 Up to 4.5:1              7 stories max

                2-3 stories              7 stories max

3 All areas qualifying for TOIA could also opt to use CT incentives in this option.
4 See Section VIII, "Upzoning Options" `Geographic Applicability" for a more in depth explanation of the

Opportunity Station concept.
5 Only high and moderate opportunity census tracts in majority low opportunity station areas ineligible for

delay would be eligible.
6 Density allowances in Options 2 and 3 would supersede any limitations for low-density zones.
7 Projects may be eligible for additional FAR and height in exchange for provision of multi-bedroom units.

CT program projects may access up to an additional 0.5:1 FAR and 11 feet in height. TOIA program

projects may access up to 1.0:1 FAR and up to an additional 22 feet in height.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 6

Upzoning Options 1, 2, or 3 may be modified by the City Council to increase or "grow" zoning
capacity or "reduce" zoning capacity (see Table 2 below for a summary of ways the Upzoning
Options could be modified). These additional options for modification or "levers" would further
adjust which areas of the City are upzoned, and by how much. Based on analysis from the
consultant, the addition of any of these modifications will still allow the entire City to be eligible for
delayed effectuation under SB 79. Additional discussion on modification of these options can be
found in Section VIII of this report. Important to note, the last lever in Table 2 would provide the
minimum upzoning needed to qualify the city for delayed effectuation.

Table 2. Topic Areas for Modification to Upzoning

Applicable Grow or       Topic Area                 Modification Description

Option    Reduce

All       Grow           Lower Opportunity Areas ­ Expand eligibility to single family and

                                                    low-density zones in lower opportunity

                                                    areas

All       Reduce         Lower and Moderate         ­ Remove low and/or moderate

                         Opportunity Areas          opportunity areas eligible for delayed

                                                    effectuation

                         Very High Fire Hazard      ­ Remove incentives in all VHFHSZs
                         Severity Zones                (including non-hillside areas)

                         Historic Resources         ­ Remove incentives on sites with historic
                                                       resources
Option 3  Reduce         Bus Only Lane Eligibility
Option 1                                            ­ Exclude stops created by bus only lanes
          Reduce         Only Amend Zoning for         that are not BRTs
          (Most Limited  Sites Ineligible for
          Upzoning       Delayed Effectuation       ­ For the most limited rezoning, Option 1
          Option)                                      could be further reduced to only apply to
                                                       sites that are ineligible for delayed
                                                       effectuation.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 7

These Upzoning Options, as well as potential modifications, would be paired with an SB 79
Delayed Effectuation Ordinance (described in more detail in Section VIII of the report) which
would postpone implementation of SB 79 to areas eligible for modified implementation under the
bill (GCS 65912.161(b)), depending on City Council's direction, including sites in:

     Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones
     One-foot Sea Level Rise Areas
     Lower Opportunity Areas
     Local Historic Resources
     Areas or TOD zones with high development potential (including areas rezoned through

         an option summarized in Table 1)

Based on the analysis presented in this report, the Department recommends pursuing an
implementation approach summarized above given its alignment with the bill's intent to increase
land available for housing development. Furthermore, it affords the city additional time to
implement SB 79 citywide and carry out thoughtful public outreach to deliberately consider density
increases in sensitive areas.

IV. SB 79 BACKGROUND

SB 79 establishes new development standards within specified distances of "transit-oriented
development (TOD) stops" (as defined in SB 79) on land zoned for residential, mixed, or
commercial uses. In particular, the bill extends guaranteed height, Floor Area Ratio (FAR), and
density standards to encourage five to nine story buildings within a half mile of both existing and
planned transit stations. If implemented in its entirety, the bill enforces affordability requirements
for development with more than 10 units; compliance with labor standards for buildings greater
than 85 feet; and limitations on industrial land, hotel uses, and lots with three or more units subject
to the Rent Stabilization Ordinance (RSO) occupied in the last seven years. For a comprehensive
overview of SB 79 and an analysis of the bill requirements, please refer to the City Planning report
submitted to Council File (CF) 25-10838 dated November 13, 2025.

Since the November report, additional research on the bill and guidance from agencies including
HCD and the Southern California Association of Governments (SCAG) have resulted in several
new interpretations of SB 79's key provisions, described below. Note that guidance from HCD
and SCAG informing this report is still in development and will likely evolve as additional resources
and information become available. As SCAG is the responsible agency for SB 79 map production,
final TOD zone location will be dependent on their map release and may vary from the stations
identified in this report. For a detailed description of mapping modifications see Appendix A.

SB 79 will foundationally shift residential development patterns and construction trends in Los
Angeles for years to come. With just over 140 TOD zones­the largest number of eligible transit

8 https://cityclerk.lacity.org/lacityclerkconnect/index.cfm?fa=ccfi.viewrecord&cfnumber=25-1083
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 8

development areas in the state­the bill touches almost every community and increases capacity
throughout the City. The implementation of this transformational bill necessitates thoughtful
consideration to ensure its application aligns to the maximum extent possible with Los Angeles'
land use and equity goals and accounts for the City's distinct socio-economic and environmental
conditions.

The 2021-2029 Housing Element identified priorities for housing stability and housing growth,
aiming to shift development away from lower opportunity areas to higher opportunity areas
consistent with an affirmatively furthering fair housing (AFFH) framework. Of the City's TOD
zones, approximately 57% are made up of majority lower opportunity areas (per the 2026
California Tax Credit Allocation Committee [CTCAC] and California Department of Housing and
Community Development [HCD] Opportunity Area Maps) meaning SB 79 disproportionately
affects areas the state has identified as having higher rates of segregation and poverty that offer
lower long term health, economic, and educational outcomes for children.

The bill also affects neighborhoods characterized by low-density development patterns and some
of the City's most environmentally vulnerable areas, with 16% of all TOD zones intersecting
VHFHSZs, including three station areas located wholly within a VHFHSZ. Of all the City's SB 79
TOD zones, 60% are comprised of majority low-density sites (zoned RD and more restrictive),
indicating that many TOD zones are currently zoned for much lower densities than SB 79 would
allow and that existing zoned capacity for higher density is concentrated in fewer station areas.
The Department recognizes the urgency to realize SB 79's vision to address the City and State's
housing affordability crisis, while also acknowledging the need for consideration of local priorities
as outlined in the Housing Element.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 9

Map 1. Draft Citywide Potential Eligibility with Revised Number of TOD Stops
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 10

 V. APPROACHES TO LOCAL IMPLEMENTATION

As described in the November report, SB 79 empowers cities to tailor the timing and applicability
of the bill's provisions. In particular, the Department previously identified four pathways or
"approaches" the city could employ to implement the bill, including:

     Approach A: State SB 79 Implementation
     Approach B: Delayed Effectuation for Eligible Areas
     Approach C: Delayed Effectuation + New Upzoning Ordinance to Increase Capacity and

         Expand Eligibility to Delay
     Approach D: Local TOD Alternative Plan

These approaches can be used independently or in combination and offer flexibility for
implementation. Cities can opt to implement the state version of the bill (Approach A), applying
the scope of SB 79's development standards in their entirety, including allowances to treat newly
permitted building volumes as base conditions for the purposes of utilizing State Density Bonus
Law (GCS 65915-65918). The bill also affords cities the option to modify temporarily or "delay"
effectuation (Approach B) of the bill only on certain types of sites including those that meet
development minimums, are located in VHFHSZs host local historic resources, or are classified
as lower opportunity neighborhoods in the Opportunity Area Maps created by CTCAC/HCD (GCS
65912.161(b)). Specifically, cities may postpone implementation of the bill on sites with half of the
density and floor area SB 79 offers; on TOD zones primarily composed of CTCAC lower
opportunity neighborhoods that provide at least 40% of the capacity otherwise granted through
SB 79. TOD zones may also be excluded if at least 33% of sites within a zone permit half the
density and floor area ratio as granted through SB 79, and the entire station area provides at least
75% of the capacity granted through the bill. Lastly, a temporary delay in effectuation may apply
to all lower opportunity areas if a city can demonstrate it has at least half of the capacity created
by SB 79. In all scenarios, sites located within an industrial employment hub9 as well as sites
located beyond a one-mile walking distance from a station entrance can be permanently
exempted from the bill's rules entirely through the adoption of an ordinance. A summary of these
parameters may be found below in Image 1; in addition, a detailed description of the rules
associated with implementation of Approach B is included in the November 2025 report. Analysis
of the areas eligible for delayed effectuation is described below in Section VII of this report.

9 Paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of GCS 65912.160 defines an industrial employment hub as a
contiguous area of at least 250 acres dedicated to industrial uses and designated as such in the local
jurisdiction's general plan as of January 1, 2025.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 11

Image 1. Summary of Rules to Delay Effectuation Consistent with GCS 65912.161(b)

At their meeting on November 17, 2025, the PLUM Committee directed the Department to refrain
from implementing SB 79 in its entirety (Approach A) and from pursuing a standalone delayed
effectuation ordinance in areas currently eligible for delay (Approach B), and to instead provide
recommendations for delaying effectuation citywide through an accompanying upzoning program
(Approach C). The PLUM Committee verbalized priorities for upzoning higher opportunity areas
near high quality transit, even in areas eligible for delayed effectuation, applying incentives to
sites with historic resources, exempting lower opportunity areas, and protecting sites vulnerable
to extreme fire risks.
Given this direction, the Department has prepared three approaches or options for the City
Council's consideration to increase capacity on single family and low-density zoned parcels
located within ½ mile of an SB 79 station. Should the City Council wish to delay effectuation of
SB 79 citywide, the Department recommends that the City Council select upzoning option 1, 2, or
3, directing the Department to initiate a code amendment, as well as instruct the Department to
initiate a citywide Delayed Effectuation Ordinance. This SB 79 implementation strategy, described
in further detail later in this report, allows the city more time to consider approaches for increased
density in sensitive areas, including lower opportunity neighborhoods and geographies vulnerable
to environmental risks, as part of a future Alt Plan per State of California GCS 65912.161(a)
(Approach D), while still creating immediate opportunities for housing construction near high
quality transit. Given the imminent effective date of the bill, direction on the City's approach to the
implementation of the bill's provisions is critical to allow adequate time for the Department to
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 12

prepare materials for legislative review should the City Council desire a tailored local
implementation option.

VI. ANALYSIS: TOD ZONE COMPOSITION AND TRENDS

As directed by the City Council, the Department has conducted analysis using Geographic
Information System (GIS) tools on the composition of the City's anticipated 141 TOD zones
citywide, as well as the impact of SB 79 on sites with RSO units, industrial zoned sites, and sites
located in various types of environmentally sensitive areas; and information for each TOD zone
related to VHFHSZs, areas impacted by sea level rise, lower opportunity areas, and locally and
federally designated historic resources.

Key Citywide Trends

The following TOD zone analysis reveals the scale of SB 79's impact citywide, particularly in low-
density zones, lower opportunity neighborhoods, and areas within local VHFHSZs. Of all the City's
sites eligible for SB 79, 48% are currently eligible for existing local housing incentive programs
including the Mixed Income Incentive Program (MIIP), and 68% of eligible sites are zoned RD
and more restrictive, meaning the underlying zoning10 generally permits less than five units on an
average lot (see Appendix B, Table 5). Overall, 15% of sites within SB 79 TOD zones are ineligible
for the bill because they contain three or more RSO units (see Appendix B, Table 5). A summary
of key TOD zone characteristics by Area Planning Commission (APC) is summarized in Appendix
B, Table 6 and Table 7.

Environmental Considerations

Los Angeles hosts unique environmental conditions due to its coastal setting and location in close
proximity to areas vulnerable to wildfire. Based on the revised map, TOD zones do not include
parcels located within the Coastal Zone, areas vulnerable to one-foot of sea level rise, Tsunami
Zone, or are in or near tsunami evacuation routes. As mentioned earlier in this report, a total of
23 TOD zones or 16% of TOD zones overall include parcels classified as VHFHSZ (a list of these
TOD zones is included for review in Appendix B, Table 9). Of these TOD zones, 14 have a majority
of parcels located in the VHFHSZ. Examples of these TOD zones are along the A Line in Highland
Park and Mount Washington and along the North Hollywood to Pasadena BRT in Eagle Rock,
where some parcels may be located in hillside areas with limited ingress and egress.

Historic Considerations

The City's TOD zones include sites with local, state, or federal designated individual historic
resources and historic districts. Properties in HPOZs affected by SB 79 represent 5% of all SB 79
eligible sites and 36% of sites included in HPOZs citywide. Approximately 25 of the City's TOD

10 Without inclusion of bonus units enabled in an incentive program.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 13

zones, or 18%, overlap with 19 of the City's HPOZs, largely in Northeast LA, South LA, and
Greater Wilshire. Of these HPOZs, 11 are located within majority moderate and higher opportunity
TOD zones. Appendix B, Table 10 provides a list of HPOZs with sites located in TOD zones, and
the proportion of parcels impacted in each. The table also includes the percentage of TOD zone
area that overlaps with each HPOZ11. The Highland Park - Garvanza, Miracle Mile, and Adams-
Normandie HPOZs are the most impacted districts in terms of parcel count. Sites containing
locally designated Historic-Cultural Monuments (HCMs) are also eligible for SB 79, with 578
HCMs located within TOD zones. Approximately 176 federally designated historic resources (both
individual resources or National Register Historic Districts (NRHD)) are located within TOD zones,
and approximately 925 state designated historic resources (both individual resources and
districts) are located within TOD zones.

RSO Considerations

RSO units are found in TOD zones across the City but were found to be generally more prevalent
in lower opportunity neighborhoods. Majority lower opportunity TOD zones have the highest
proportion of sites with one to two RSO units, ranging from 16-36% of the TOD zone with the
highest rates are generally located in South LA, Southeast LA, and Boyle Heights. Additional
information about TOD zones with the highest percentage of sites with one to two RSO units
including majority CTCAC designation and APC area can be found in Appendix B, Table 5 and 6.
TOD zones with the highest number of sites with three or more RSO units, from 26-50% of the
TOD zone, are generally located in lower opportunity areas such as Koreatown and East
Hollywood.

Industrial Considerations

Industrial uses exist in various neighborhoods citywide that intersect with eligible TOD zones.
Specifically, just over 10% of TOD zones contain at least 20% industrial zones (see Appendix B,
Table 11 for a complete list) in areas including Downtown Los Angeles, South Los Angeles, Van
Nuys, Chatsworth, and Pacoima. The Department is continuing to conduct analysis on whether
these various concentrations of industrial zones qualify as industrial employment hubs12 per the
provisions of GCS 65912(e)(2), which would allow for a permanent exemption from SB 79.

11 Per GCS 65912.161(a)(2)(C), in an Alt Plan, sites with historic resources may be exempt from eligibility
so long as those sites do not exceed more than 10% of the area of the TOD zone.
12 Paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of GCS 65912.160 defines an industrial employment hub as a
contiguous area of at least 250 acres dedicated to industrial uses and designated as such in the local
jurisdiction's general plan as of January 1, 2025.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 14

VII. ANALYSIS: CAPACITY ANALYSIS

In late 2025, the Department contracted Psomas13 to prepare a capacity model to evaluate
delayed effectuation eligibility and future local alt plan compliance. Initial model results were
received in February 2026. As such, this delayed effectuation modeling is preliminary and will
continue to be refined as staff evaluates data quality and as guidance from SCAG and the state
becomes available. The delayed effectuation model compares current City housing capacity to
that of SB 79 and evaluates at a site and station level compliance with eight delayed effectuation
criteria provided in the bill. To calculate existing local capacity, the model uses the density and
FAR associated with a site's underlying zone or, where applicable, the site's eligibility for existing
housing incentive programs including the MIIP and the Los Angeles Housing Incentive Program.
Local density in multi-family zones is often higher than in SB 79, partly because local housing
programs offer densities limited by floor area, which often exceed the density allowances in SB
79. Discounts to floor area were applied to account for residential floor area in calculating local
capacity and ineligible sites were removed from SB 79 capacity modeling altogether. Globally
138,270 lots were found eligible for SB 79 and 26,320 lots were found to be ineligible for SB 79
because they contain RSO sites with three or more units, or land which does not permit residential
units including industrial land, open space, right of ways, and public facilities.

Overall, the model found that Los Angeles currently permits the construction of more than 2.8
times the number of units and slightly more overall floor area than what SB 79 offers. However,
while the City's current overall capacity exceeds that offered through SB 79, at the site level, the
model results show that capacity is concentrated on fewer sites than SB 79, with only 34% of
eligible sites permitting more than half of what the bill allows (as shown in Map 2, below). This is
reflective of the areas the City has historically prioritized for growth, including areas like Downtown
LA, Koreatown, Warner Center, and North Hollywood; major corridors, and in areas with high
concentration of multi-family zoning like South LA and East Hollywood (as shown in Map 2,
below). This finding means that if the city is to pursue a Local Alt Plan, by 2030 upzoning may be
required on up to 66% of eligible sites including single family and lower-density sites.

In the short term, as shown in Map 3 below, the City would be eligible to temporarily delay
effectuation until approximately 2030 for up to 88% of eligible sites citywide. This is possible
because, in addition to 34% of eligible sites having at least half of SB 79's zoning capacity, the
city exceeds SB 79's requirements to allow delayed effectuation in lower opportunity sites and in
stations that primarily comprise lower opportunity census tracts, which represent approximately
45% of eligible sites (as shown in Map 8 in Appendix D). Site level eligibility for delay is further
described in Appendix C Table 15.

13 Contract Number C-144842
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 15

Map 2. Sites Eligible for Delayed Effectuation due to Existing Zoned Capacity
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 16

Map 3. Station and Site Level Eligibility for Delayed Effectuation Citywide
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 17
Example Stations
The Metro 234 - Ventura Boulevard TOD zone is an example of where existing zoning
concentrates density within fewer sites in the station area. Based on existing zoning, the TOD
zone has the potential to build approximately 93,023 units, whereas SB 79 would allow the
development of approximately 28,474 units. Though the Metro 234 - Ventura Boulevard TOD
zone allows for more than 3 times the capacity of SB 79, only 15.44% of individual sites meet at
least half the capacity of what would be permitted under SB 79 as shown in the Map 4 below:
Map 4. Sites Eligible for Delayed Effectuation at Metro 234 - Ventura Boulevard TOD zone

This means the stop does not meet Delayed Effectuation 2, which requires that 33% of sites within
a TOD zone have 50% of the density and FAR offered by SB 79, a criterion designed to ensure
capacity is not concentrated on a few high density parcels within the TOD zone. As a result, the
Metro 234 - Ventura Boulevard TOD zone is not eligible for delayed effectuation at a station level,
and at an individual site level, approximately 55% of parcels within the TOD zone would be subject
to SB 79. Additionally, 466 parcels (32%) are in the VHFHSZ. Though these parcels can all be
temporarily exempted from SB 79, the TOD zone as a whole would still be disproportionately
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 18

affected by SB 79 as shown in Appendix D, Map 16 combining all delayed effectuation criteria.
Capacity in the Metro 234 - Ventura Boulevard TOD zone is illustrative of broader historical land
use patterns in Los Angeles, where density is concentrated in higher density commercial and
higher density multi-family zones close to commercial corridors. See Appendix C, Table 14 for
station level attribute breakdown of this TOD zone.

When looking at capacity by station level delayed effectuation criteria, a nuanced picture emerges
of where capacity is not available, with areas throughout the Valley and select TOD zones in West
and Central LA unable to meet capacity minimums. Appendix D, Map 9 shows that 83 stations
(58%) are eligible for delayed effectuation based on their existing capacity. This concurs with
concerns raised at the November 17, 2025 PLUM meeting about a direct delayed effectuation
approach increasing capacity in areas of the City that were not recently prioritized for growth in
the Citywide Housing Incentive Program. Appendix D, Map 8 shows TOD zones that are
composed primarily of lower opportunity areas and can delay effectuation because they contain
at least 40% of capacity offered in SB 79. Appendix D, Map 10 shows that almost all majority
lower opportunity stations are eligible for delay based on their underlying zoning, reflecting that
lower opportunity areas contain more housing capacity categorically.

Additionally, there are TOD zones that would face the prospect of high variability upzoning if a
delayed effectuation ordinance without upzoning is pursued. For example the G Line ­ Woodman
Station, shown below, illustrates that while the lower opportunity area census tracts in the
Northwestern corner of the TOD zone would be eligible for delayed effectuation due to Delayed
Effectuation Criterion 1 (citywide exemption for lower opportunity areas), the rest of the station
area would become eligible for higher incentives because it does not meet station level delayed
effectuation. Ultimately, only 28% of the station area is eligible for delay, meaning 72% of the
station will become subject to SB 79 in July if no local action is taken upzone.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 19

Map 5. CTCAC and Delayed Effectuation Breakdown of the G Line ­ Woodman Station

The Woodman G Line Station contains high, moderate, and lower opportunity tracts. Incentives
applied by tract could lead to uneven development outcomes. As shown above on the image to
the right, sites eligible for delayed effectuation (blue) generally align with low resource
opportunity tracts (green).
In addition to low opportunity and capacity related delayed effectuation criteria, SB 79 extends
exemptions and delayed effectuation provisions to local historic sites (6% of parcels citywide),
sites in VHFHSZs (9% of parcels citywide), sites more than one mile walking distance from a
station entrance, and industrial employment hubs. See Appendix C, Table 12 for a full citywide
breakdown of sites meeting those site characteristics. As mentioned above, staff are currently
working to identify industrial employment hub eligibility and as such industrial employment hubs
are not yet included in delayed effectuation analysis.
Overall, if the City pursued Approach B to delay effectuation only on sites and TOD zones that
already meet SB 79's delayed effectuation thresholds, 116 whole stations and 88% of sites would
qualify. SB 79 would therefore become available in 25 station areas and on 13,069 sites with
lower density underlying zoning in TOD zones including the Tampa, Woodman, Valley College,
Sepulveda, Reseda, Pierce College, and Balboa G line Stations, the Westwood and Sepulveda
Expo line stations, the Glendale Metrolink station, the proposed La Brea K-Line extension, and
the Westchester K Line station. This is illustrated in Appendix D, Map 16 and a full list of stations
ineligible for delay is included in Appendix C, List 1.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 20

By taking a proactive approach that focuses growth in station areas that are primarily higher and
moderate opportunity (see Upzoning Options 1-3 below in Section VIII), and applying incentives
more evenly across those majority moderate/higher opportunity stations depending on quality of
transit service rather than underlying zoning, the City will align its growth with quality infrastructure
that can service greater residential intensity and remain consistent with public input and local
objectives that informed the 2021-2029 Housing Element.

VIII. NEAR TERM IMPLEMENTATION: DELAYED EFFECTUATION ORDINANCE
         AND REZONING

Implementation of SB 79 presents an opportunity to increase land available for mixed income,
multi-family development where it's needed most. Based on modeling and analysis, City Council
direction, citywide housing priorities identified in the 2021-2029 Housing Element, and state goals
to AFFH, the Department has prepared a two part strategy for the local implementation of SB 79
before July 1 including: 1) the initiation of an upzoning program to introduce a phased approach
to SB 79 and facilitate a citywide delay in effectuation; and 2) the initiation of a Delayed
Effectuation Ordinance consistent with GCS 65912.161(b). This approach could allow more time
for the City to consider how to add capacity in sensitive areas, while also providing immediate
rezoning in high and moderate opportunity transit rich areas consistent with the 2021-2029
Housing Element.

Citywide Upzoning Code Amendment Ordinance

The City may initiate an upzoning program in SB 79 TOD zones through a citywide code
amendment that expands eligibility and development incentives for sites near transit and further
delays effectuation across the city. The Department encourages City Council to instruct that any
rezoning or upzoning occur as part of an amendment to the City's Mixed Income Incentive
Program (MIIP) (LAMC Chapter 1 12.22 A.38) to ensure additional capacity created is done so in
alignment with the goals and programs of the 2021-2029 Housing Element. The Department is
currently developing targeted amendments to MIIP funded by the HCD Regional Early Action Plan
(REAP) Grant, which could be expanded to include code amendments for Upzoning Options. The
code amendment could contain targeted increases to density, height, and floor area for low-
density zones, including single family, R2, RD, and zones that are not eligible for or have limited
access to the City's existing incentive programs and do not presently meet the capacity-based
delayed effectuation criteria described in the bill. By increasing development potential through a
targeted upzoning, capacity increases would ensure site level eligibility for a citywide deferral of
the bill. Due to the expansion of VHFHSZs by the State in 2025, the Department recommends
restricting incentive access in areas that are both VHFHSZ and Hillside Area (consistent with the
approach of the Affordable Housing Streamlining Ordinance [Ordinance Nos. 188,788 and
188,789]) while allowing incentive access in non-hillside VHFHSZ areas. This would maintain
MIIP eligibility in areas like Ventura Boulevard, Colorado Boulevard, and Glendale Boulevard
which would otherwise be impacted by the fire map expansion.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 21

Higher density residential and commercial sites already included in the City's MIIP program
almost always meet the delayed effectuation criteria of SB 79 and in many cases exceed SB 79's
capacity. However, 60% of SB 79 TOD zones are majority composed of lower density zones.
Based on the PLUM Committee discussion, the Department has prepared three options
(summarized in Table 3 below) for a citywide code amendment that would permit single family,
lower density, and sites ineligible for delay within applicable TOD zones access to MIIP's Corridor
Transition (CT) Incentive Area and Transit Oriented Incentive Area (TOIA) development
incentives. These proposed amendments ensure that all sites meet SB 79 delayed effectuation
thresholds, and that capacity is distributed fairly and consistently with the goals of the 2021-2029
Housing Element, the rezoning program description in Program 121, and the recommended
options in Exhibit D of the City Planning Commission (CPC) Staff Report for Council File 21-1230-
S5. The Upzoning Options maintain strong value capture to ensure maximum on-site affordability
and focus growth in high and moderate opportunity areas with access to high quality transit.

The CT and TOIA programs, adopted as part of the Citywide Housing Incentive Program (CHIP)
Ordinance and the Housing Element Rezoning Program in 2025, establish development
incentives on multi-family and commercially zoned parcels near transit. Today, the CT program
applies on sites zoned R2 and RD within 750 feet of designated "Opportunity Corridors"14 and
encourages low rise middle scheme development typologies such as bungalow courts, row
houses, and town homes, with incremental FAR provided per unit up to either 10 or 16 units. The
TOIA program applies on multi-family zoned sites within a half mile of Major Transit Stops as
defined in LAMC 12.03 and supports construction of five to seven story multi-family, podium style
developments. Both programs allow for additional floor area and height in exchange for the
provision of multi-bedroom units. Projects utilizing the TOIA program may seek additional
incentives and waivers for relief from standards that might impede the larger building envelopes
facilitated by the incentive program, while projects utilizing the CT program may not. Both
programs are subject to eligibility requirements including setting aside percentages of overall units
as affordable; disallowing projects in VHFHSZs, sea level rise areas, and industrial areas; and
prohibiting the demolition of historic resources. Lastly, incentives associated with both programs
are not applicable in the Downtown Los Angeles, Boyle Heights, or Harbor Community Plans.
Rezoning through an expansion of MIIP incentive tools will prioritize value capture, ensure that
incentives do not apply in areas with environmental hazards such as VHFHSZs or heavy industrial
areas, and maintain safeguards for sites with historic resources while still encouraging transit
oriented development.

14 Corridors served by frequent bus or high quality transit service; or within a half mile of a Metro Rail
Station in a higher opportunity area.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 22

Upzoning Options

Geographic and Zoning Applicability

Upzoning Options 1, 2, and 3 described later in this section are proposed to apply to specific
geographic areas near transit and specific zones. All three Upzoning Options described below
utilize the same geographic areas for expansion of development incentives, which include SB 79
TOD zones that are primarily (more than 50%) composed of higher and moderate opportunity
areas, herein referred to as "Opportunity Stations." These areas may include lower or moderate
opportunity census tracts when lower or moderate opportunity areas represent the minority of
available land in a station area. For example, the North Hollywood B Line station contains census
tracts of all CTCAC areas but comprises a majority of moderate and higher opportunity areas,
see Map 6 below. Furthermore, the Upzoning Options focus any upzoning on single family and
low-density zones due to their limited existing density allowances in comparison to SB 79
standards. With this in mind, to comply with the rules for delayed effectuation contained in GCS
65912.161(b) for site level delayed effectuation, including having at least 50% of the capacity and
FAR created by SB 79, a rezoning of single family sites remains the focus of the options
presented.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 23
Map 6. North Hollywood B Line Station with CTCAC Area Designations

             The North Hollywood B Line Station (pink
             radius) contains highest, high, moderate, and lower opportunity tracts. Incentives
             applied by tract could lead to uneven development outcomes.
Considering the station in its entirety can provide opportunity for consistency in the built
environment when census tracts divide corridors and neighborhoods. However, it is important to
note that if the City Council wishes to exempt lower opportunity areas from potential upzoning (as
SB 79 affords delayed effectuation provisions to these areas), they may modify any option to
eliminate lower opportunity sites. Citywide analysis shows that 55 stations out of 141 (39% of all
SB 79 TOD zones) can be classified as Opportunity Stations, see Appendix C, List One. In
addition to Opportunity Station eligibility, higher and moderate opportunity census tracts that are
located outside of Opportunity Stations and are ineligible for delay, are also proposed for CT
eligibility in the options to ensure delayed effectuation minimums are met. Maps provided below
for Options 1-3 (see Map 7 below and Appendix E, Maps 17-19) include all potential tracts that
may apply to and are overly inclusive of tracts. The Department expects to be able to remove a
substantial share of tracts outside of opportunity stations including tracts in South Los Angeles,
once available revised maps will be posted online15.
The Department recommends that the City Council select one of the three Upzoning Options
described herein to ensure citywide delayed effectuation eligibility. These options are designed
to qualify the City for a temporary delay of SB 79 while still adding housing capacity in ways that

15 https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/480791d9b665485ea798986dcad61e86
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 24

are consistent with local goals and the 2021-2029 Housing Element. Each option builds upon the
next, with Option 1 offering the most limited approach of the three, while Options 2 and 3 offer a
broader rezoning approach that may minimize the need to subsequently upzone as part of a future
Alt Plan. Options vary based on the quality of transit (existing vs proposed) and the scale of
incentives (CT or TOIA) available. Options were designed to incorporate feedback from the PLUM
Committee discussion, public comment, and advocacy organizations, in addition to these options
the Table 4 below offers optionality for greater and reduced rezoning, including an option for the
bare minimum upzoning needed to ensure delayed effectuation. As described above, all three
options include eligibility within HPOZs with reduced incentives and offer incentives in the non-
hillside portions of the VHFHSZs. See Maps 17-19 in Appendix E for a visual demonstration of
where these incentives would be extended to single family and low-density zones.

         Option 1 Corridor Transition (CT) Expansion: This option extends CT incentives to
         single family and lower residential parcels that are either in one of the 55 Opportunity
         Station half-mile buffers served by both existing and planned transit routes or are located
         in select higher or moderate opportunity census tracts ineligible for delay. The most
         impacted areas of the City would include Central, West LA, South Valley, and East LA
         Area Planning Commission (APC) areas. Since there are more low-density zones,
         particularly single family zones, within TOD zones in the South Valley, those areas face
         greater potential development changes despite the increase in development incentives
         occurring across TOD zones citywide. This option offers the lightest rezoning approach of
         the three Options and would ensure citywide delayed effectuation eligibility. However,
         following the delayed effectuation period, many of these areas would likely need to be
         further rezoned by 2030 to comply with local Alt Plan requirements of SB 79. Note that
         this option will necessitate substantive restructuring of the CT program given it expands
         incentive applicability to whole half mile buffers around eligible transit stations in contrast
         to the current program's applicability near Opportunity Corridors.

         Option 2 Transit Oriented Incentive Area (TOIA) Expansion near Operational Rail +
         Option 1: This option is inclusive of Option 1 but also extends full16 TOIA incentives to
         single family and lower density parcels in Opportunity Stations along existing or operating
         rail lines. It would not include TOIA eligibility for BRT or planned routes. This criteria would
         qualify 2517 TOD zones that are primarily located in the Central and West APC areas for
         TOIA incentives. In this scheme, low-density zones surrounding all 55 Opportunity
         Stations would remain eligible for CT incentives. This option focuses higher intensity
         incentives in the central urban core of the City, while facilitating missing middle scale
         development in the South Valley, Northeast LA, and along corridors like Sepulveda on the
         Westside.

16 Current Restricted Density limitations would not apply, and sites would be eligible for unlimited density.
17 This count is inclusive of the purple line extension area, as it is expected to be operational in the near
future.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 25

         Option 3 TOIA Expansion near all Transit + Option 1: This option is also inclusive of
         Option 1 and provides the broadest extension of TOIA incentives to single family and lower
         density parcels in Opportunity Stations across all SB 79 TOD zones including those served
         by both planned and existing transit lines. Within this option all 55 Opportunity Station
         buffers receive full TOIA incentives in addition to CT Incentives. This option offers the
         most generous application of incentives to prioritize development in Opportunity Stations
         in alignment with SB 79, the recommended options in Exhibit D of the CPC Staff Report
         for Council File 21-1230-S5, and Program 121 of the Housing Element.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 26

Map 7. Upzoning Options
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 27

Table 3. Summary Options for Expansion of the Mixed Income Incentive Program to
Lower Density Zones (R2, RD and Single Family)

                Option 1:                Option 2:18              Option 3:23
                CT Expansion             TOIA Expansion near
                                         Operational Rail         TOIA Expansion near
Transit Status  All SB 79 Stops                                   all Transit
Applicability   (planned and existing        + Option 1
                stops)                                                + Option 1
                                         Existing Rail
                                                                  All SB 79 Stops
                                                                  (planned and existing
                                                                  stops)

Opportunity     55 Opportunity Stations  2320 Opportunity         55 Opportunity
Station         +                        Stations receive TOIA    Stations receive
Applicability   Select19 Higher and      Incentives &             TOIA incentives &
                Moderate Opportunity
Density                                  32 Opportunity Stations  Select27 Higher and
FAR22           Tracts receive CT        +                        Moderate
Height26        incentives               Select27 Higher and      Opportunity Tracts
                                         Moderate Opportunity     receive CT incentives
                                         Tracts
                                         receive CT incentives    Limited by FAR25

                4-16 units               Limited by FAR21         Up to a 4.5:1
                                                                  7 stories max
                Incremental up to 2.9:1 Up to a 4.5:1

                2-3 stories              7 stories max

Consistent with the MIIP framework, all three options require affordable units set aside in order to
receive development incentives. Furthermore, the program's eligibility criteria includes protections
for sites in VHFHSZs and Hillside Areas by excluding these sites from eligibility; and for sites with
historic resources through limitations on building volume incentives for sites with Designated
Historic Resources, in addition to restricting demolition (additional discussion on the implications
for sites in VHFHSZs and with historic resources may be found below on page 33 and 34). None

18 All areas qualifying for TOIA could also opt to use CT incentives in this option.
19 Only High and Moderate Opportunity census tracts in majority low opportunity station areas ineligible
for delay would be eligible.
20 This count is inclusive of the D line extension area, as it is expected to be operational in the near
future.
21 Density allowances in Options 2 and 3 would supersede any limitations for low-density zones.
22 Projects may be eligible for additional FAR and height in exchange for provision of multi-bedroom units.
CT program projects may access up to an additional 0.5:1 FAR and 11 feet in height. TOIA program
projects may access up to 1.0:1 FAR and up to an additional 22 feet in height.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 28

of the recommendations would create new capacity in areas vulnerable to one foot of sea level
rise or on sites in the Coastal Zone. Across all options (Appendix E, Maps 17-19), the eligible
TOD zones are concentrated in the Central, West, and South Valley APC areas; while East Los
Angeles and North Valley APCs would each have several TOD zones affected. The South Los
Angeles APC would receive limited incentives for missing middle housing in a few moderate and
higher opportunity tract areas; there would be no expansion of incentives in the Harbor APC.

If any of these options are desired, City Council can instruct the Department to initiate a code
amendment for one of these options as is. Alternatively, these options may be further customized
to achieve desired goals, as described in Table 4. Refinement options are informed by feedback
received over the past year and allow flexibility to grow or reduce recommendations based on
transit types, CTCAC category designation, historic resources, and VHFHSZ eligibility.
Modifications beyond those described below would require evaluation to determine if Citywide
delayed effectuation would be impacted, refinement options would not revise current eligibility for
the MIIP program.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 29

Table 4. Topic Areas for Modification to Upzoning

Applicable Grow or  Topic Area                     Modification Description

Option    Reduce

All       Grow      Lower Opportunity Areas ­ Expand eligibility to single family zones
                                                            in lower opportunity areas

All       Reduce    Lower and Moderate             ­ Remove low and/or moderate
                    Opportunity Areas                  opportunity areas eligible for delayed
                                                       effectuation

                    Very High Fire Hazard ­ Do not expand incentives in all

                    Severity Zones                 VHFHSZs (including non-hillside areas)

                    Historic Resources             ­ Do not expand incentives on sites with
                                                       historic resources

Option 3  Reduce    Bus Only Lane Eligibility      Exclude stops created by bus only lanes
Option 1                                           that are not BRTs
          Reduce
          (Most     Only amend zoning for          ­ For the most limited rezoning, Option 1
          Limited   Areas Ineligible for               could be further reduced to only apply to
          Upzoning  Delayed Effectuation               sites and areas ineligible for delayed
          Option)                                      effectuation

Discussion on each topic area provided in Table 4 where modifications may be desired is
provided in detail below:

         Lower Opportunity Areas: Consistent with Program 121 of the 2021-2029 Housing
         Element, the options described focus capacity for new housing units in higher opportunity
         areas; however, the Upzoning Options include upzones to lower opportunity area tracts
         only when located within an Opportunity Station where more than 50% of a station is
         composed of higher and moderate opportunity areas. The rezoning approach for each
         option to focus on majority moderate and higher opportunity areas aligns with the aim to
         pause implementation of SB 79 in all lower opportunity areas consistent with rules of GCS
         65912.161(b). City Council could opt to expand incentives into TOD zones in lower
         opportunity neighborhoods; however this could potentially hinder the City's ability to meet
         its state-level AFFH mandate. Furthermore, it could exacerbate redevelopment pressures
         in areas of the City that have produced more affordable housing over the last decade as
         a result of historic land use patterns.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 30

         Lower and Moderate Opportunity Areas: Another area for potential modification might
         be reducing incentive applicability in lower and moderate opportunity areas. Moderate
         opportunity areas often align with what are perceived as "gentrifying" areas of the City, as
         shown in the more recent CTCAC/HCD Opportunity Area Map designation called
         "Neighborhood Change."23 Redevelopment in areas experiencing "neighborhood change"
         can increase housing availability and expand housing mobility. However, advocates have
         requested more modest upzoning in moderate and lower opportunity areas that are
         ineligible for delayed effectuation to provide time for tenant outreach and program
         development. Expanding incentive applicability utilizing the Opportunity Station tool could
         potentially increase redevelopment pressures in moderate and lower opportunity areas of
         the City as incentives would still apply in these tracts if in an Opportunity Station; although
         safeguards in place through the Resident Protections Ordinance (RPO) would still apply.
         Under the City's new RPO, a new project must provide one to one replacement, relocation
         compensation, and right to return. As the City has continued to expand protections for
         tenants, the proposed Upzoning Options only include low and moderate opportunity areas
         when the majority of census tracts (more than 50% percent) within the TOD zone are
         composed of higher and moderate opportunity areas and areas ineligible for delay. This
         ensures consistent land use and design outcomes throughout a half mile buffer as
         opposed to census tracts with boundaries that bisect neighborhoods and corridors, such
         as station areas like the North Hollywood B Line station (discussed above) where a lower
         opportunity tract traverses the northern portion of the half mile buffer. However, if the City
         Council wants to prioritize development in higher opportunity areas to protect against
         displacement for the City's most vulnerable populations, the Council could remove
         moderate and low opportunity census tracts eligible for delay from the Opportunity Station
         area and limit incentive to census tracts ineligible for delay.

         Bus Only Lanes: Rezoning Option 3 applies TOIA incentives most broadly to all SB 79
         transit types, including bus only lanes. These higher tier incentives could be removed
         along bus only lane stops if Council perceives this as a less quality transit service than the
         other types included in the bill. While bus only lanes offer frequent service, they might not
         eliminate the need for car transportation like proximity to a rail or BRT stop can.

         Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones ­ Existing City policy inclusive of the CHIP
         Ordinance prioritizes residential growth in areas safe from fire and other environmental
         risks. The tragic Palisades Fire of early 2025 demonstrated that the homes of Angelenos
         are vulnerable to catastrophic fire destruction. Although the present Upzoning Options

23 The Neighborhood Change Map identifies tracts that have undergone recent racial and/or economic
changes, and where increasing rental costs in low and moderate-income communities of color may
produce more change The methodology identifies tracts that have experienced both substantial
racial/ethnic demographic change (growth in the non-Hispanic white share of the population) and
economic demographic change (growth in the share of high-income households), as well as markers of
disproportionate housing need (rising median rents):
https://www.hcd.ca.gov/sites/default/files/docs/planning-and-community/neighborhood-change-memo.pdf
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 31

         would contain an eligibility carve out for parcels in areas where VHFHSZs and Hillside
         Areas overlap (consistent with eligibility limitations contained in the recently adopted
         Affordable Housing Streamlining Ordinance), the City Council may further modify this
         criterion so that all single family sites in the VHFHSZ are ineligible for rezoning. This would
         result in all Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones, including areas in non-hillside areas,
         being ineligibility. However, it is important to understand that the state VHFHSZ maps
         represent fire "hazard" areas rather than fire "risk," the latter of which is inclusive of
         mitigation measures. For that reason, the state VHFHSZ has expanded into paved and
         urbanized areas that are not as likely to burn as Hillside Areas but are experiencing higher
         temperatures and wind patterns increasing the likelihood of a fire hazard.24 These areas
         have better access and connectivity and include geographies like Ventura Boulevard,
         Highland Park, and Atwater Village. The present Upzoning Options propose an eligibility
         criteria of where VHFHSZ and Hillside Areas overlap for three reasons: 1) Hillside Areas
         present unique evacuation concerns; 2) redevelopment in urbanized areas that have
         adequate ingress/egress improve the structural resilience of buildings; and 3) this criterion
         is aligned with other existing City policy such as the recently codified Affordable Housing
         Streamlining Ordinance.

         Historic Resources: As presented, all options would apply incentives to sites with historic
         resources consistent with the eligibility criteria in today's MIIP regardless of exceptions
         and delayed effectuation rules that may apply25. This means sites with historic resources
         could qualify for the MIIP's incentives but would be prohibited from demolishing any
         historic resource and would have a base incentive allowance of only one additional story
         of floor area and height. A total of 11 HPOZs intersect with the proposed Opportunity
         Station areas. This recommendation is consistent with the PLUM Committee's discussion
         and public feedback recommending that the Department explore upzoning scenarios that
         could still extend modest bonuses to sites with historic resources. The City Council could
         opt to modify the options to exclude sites with historic resources from expanded MIIP
         eligibility, and instead include all historic areas without any zoning changes in a citywide
         delayed effectuation ordinance under the provisions of SB 79.

         Limited Upzoning: Under Option 1, the City Council could take a more modest approach
         to upzoning by only including upzoning on sites located within TOD zones that are
         ineligible for delay. This would apply the CT program incentives to just over 13,000 single
         family and low-density sites in approximately 19 TOD zones predominantly in the South
         Valley and West LA. More information on the TOD zones and sites ineligible for delay can
         be found in Section VII of this report.

24Fore more information on Cal Fire's methodology for High Fire Severity Zones visit:
https://osfm.fire.ca.gov/what-we-do/community-wildfire-preparedness-and-mitigation/fire-hazard-severity-
zones
25 Per GCS 65912.161(b)(1)(F), delayed effectuation may apply to sites with historic resources on a local
register designated as of Jan. 1, 2025. Delayed effectuation may not apply to sites with historic resources
on a state or national register.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 32

Rezoning Considerations

An action to upzone consistent with the options described above would significantly expand
available sites for housing around 55 Opportunity Stations. Sites within those stations, which
today generally permit less than five units, would be eligible to build multi-family housing ranging
in density from 10 units to unlimited, with heights ranging from two to seven stories depending on
transit adjacency. Increasing available land for housing may relieve redevelopment pressures on
existing RSO housing stock in lower opportunity areas.

Overall, the Upzoning Options focus growth in higher and moderate opportunity areas, leaving
60% of the City's TOD zones located primarily in Southeast Los Angeles, South Los Angeles,
Boyle Heights, and the Northeast Valley unaffected by the bill in the short term. This affords more
time to conduct thoughtful community engagement in areas of the City that experience greater
housing pressures. Though rezoning wouldn't be focused on these neighborhoods in the short
term, it's important to note that capacity exists in these areas as a result of the City's historic
zoning and present housing incentive programs. In fact, an assessment of eligible SB 79 sites
reveals that just over half of sites eligible in lower opportunity zones are already eligible for the
MIIP, while only 42% of eligible parcels in higher opportunity areas are due to a higher prevalence
of single family zoning that is not eligible for the MIIP (see Appendix B, Table 5). The 2021-2029
Housing Element includes analysis showing that between 2009-2018, only 14% of covenanted
affordable units were produced in higher opportunity areas, meaning lower opportunity areas have
historically produced more affordable housing. The Housing Element sought to address this by
steering growth and mixed income development into higher opportunity areas, consistent with the
Upzoning Options presented for delaying effectuation of SB 79.

While this report focuses on the impact of rezoning on the built environment of the City, adding
capacity citywide would likely also have positive fiscal impacts through increases in property tax
revenue and real estate transactions, especially if growth is focused in higher opportunity areas
and market tiers.26 Additionally, new development may help fund infrastructure improvements
using project fees and conditions, in accordance with the City's broader value capture framework.
A forthcoming report from the Chief Legislative Analyst's office will speak more to these impacts.

26 Streets for All conducted an analysis on how direct implementation of SB 79 could impact the fiscal
projection for the City of Los Angeles here: https://data.streetsforall.org/blog/sb79_zoning_budget.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 33

Delayed Effectuation Ordinance

In addition to upzoning, the Department recommends immediate initiation of an ordinance to delay
effectuation citywide consistent with SB 79's rules for delayed implementation based on available
capacity and site characteristics. In particular, this ordinance would secure a pause in
implementation of SB 79 by affirming compliance with the criteria described in GCS
65912.161(b)27 including sites allowing at least half of SB 79's development potential on individual
sites and maintaining over 50% of SB 79's overall capacity citywide (as shown in Appendix C). A
delayed effectuation ordinance, consistent with the provisions of the bill, would also affirm
exemptions for sites located in industrial employment hubs.28 The Department is working on
identifying hubs in areas such as Downtown Los Angeles, Van Nuys, Canoga Park, South Central
Los Angeles, and Chatsworth. Furthermore, this ordinance would exempt any sites further than
one-mile walking distance from an identified TOD stop. When coupled with a rezoning option
discussed in the preceding section, this Delayed Effectuation Ordinance could accomplish a
citywide pause in implementation. Alternatively, should City Council abstain from selecting a
rezoning approach, the Delayed Effectuation Ordinance would not prevent SB 79 from going into
effect in areas including at ten G Line Stations in the South and Northwest Valley, Expo Sepulveda
and Expo Westwood/Rancho Park in West LA, and CRN-La Brea/Beverly in Mid City. As
discussed in Section IV of this report, a delayed effectuation ordinance requires effectuation prior
to SB 79's July 1, 2026 effective date and may be subject to HCD review. Per the bill, the delayed
effectuation ordinance would only be valid through one year following the adoption of the seventh
cycle of the Housing Element, which would be approximately 2030 for the City of Los Angeles.

IX. CONCLUSION AND NEXT STEPS

This report provides insights into both the scale of SB 79's impact as well as how the City can act
to ensure the bill applies in a way that furthers local land use and equity goals. Consistent with
previous instructions adopted by the City Council, if the City Council wishes to implement a
citywide delayed effectuation of SB 79 through upzoning ordinances while the City evaluates
density increases to sensitive communities such as lower opportunity areas, neighborhoods in
VHFHSZs, and those with higher concentrations of historic and cultural landmarks, the
Department recommends that the City Council instruct the Department to create an ordinance to
expand applicability of housing incentive programs. Moving forward with these recommendations
could expand land available for multifamily development near transit, in alignment with the goals
of the bill and would also advance objectives of the 2021-2029 Housing Element to AFFH and
maximize value capture through provision of on-site affordable housing. The modeling discussed
in this report as well as the eligibility mapping will continue to be refined in coordination with SCAG

27 For further detail on delayed effectuation criteria for eligible areas, see pages 12-13 of the City
Planning report dated November 13, 2025.
28 Paragraph (2) of subdivision (e) of GCS 65912.160 defines an industrial employment hub as a
contiguous area of at least 250 acres dedicated to industrial uses and designated as such in the local
jurisdiction's general plan as of January 1, 2025.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 35

APPENDIX A: TOD ZONE INTERPRETATIONS

Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) Stop Definition and Mapping Updates

The Department released preliminary mapping30 of potential SB 79 TOD stops and associated
TOD zones that included 150 stops along both existing and planned transit routes identified in
SCAG's Regional Transportation Plan/Sustainable Communities Strategy (RTP/SCS) and the
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority's (Metro) Regional Transportation
Improvement Plan (RTIP). As a result of review of the TOD stop definition (GCS 65912.156(p)),
which includes a requirement that any eligible planned transit stop be on a route which has a
preferred alternative selected or is included in the RTIP, and evaluation of plans for future lines
that may comprise the City of Los Angeles' transit network, the Department refined the number
of stops along planned routes to ensure consistency with the bill's provisions. A revised draft map
of eligible TOD stops, and TOD zones can be found in Map 1 above.

Revised maps remove planned routes lacking a Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) based on an
interpretation of the bill that a planned route is considered to have an LPA if there is
documentation of an approved action to certify an environmental document or to fund a project
from the Metro Board or similar transportation authority or regulatory body. This interpretation
informed removal of the Lincoln Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), Vermont Short Corridor (distinct from
the Vermont Transit Corridor BRT project), B Line Extension, and East San Fernando Valley Light
Rail Transit northern segment. On Jan. 22, 2026, the Metro Board approved an LPA31 for the
Sepulveda Transit Corridor Project, therefore the stations have been retained, reclassified as Tier
1, and added to the revised draft map. The Metro Board is anticipated to vote on an LPA for the
K Line Northern Extension in March; therefore, the preliminary station locations included in
SCAG's RTP/SCS in the City's draft map will be updated when an LPA is formally selected by the
Metro Board.

Additional mapping updates include the removal of three Metrolink stations as TOD zones and
updated station locations for the Vermont BRT based on the final Metro Board report approved in
March 2025. In particular, the Burbank Airport North, Burbank Airport South, and Van Nuys
Metrolink32 stations were removed from the City's preliminary map of SB 79 TOD zones because
they do not meet the 48-trains per day across both directions threshold for Tier 2 nor the 72-trains
per day threshold for Tier 1. Additionally, the Department has revised maps to group transit hubs,
stops that may be served by multiple types of lines (e.g., an intersection of heavy rail (Tier 1) and
light rail (Tier 2) by their highest tier. The aforementioned changes and consolidations resulted in
a new citywide total of 141 TOD stops or zones.

30 https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/480791d9b665485ea798986dcad61e86
31 Modified Alternative 5 was approved as the LPA.
32 Note that a TOD zone remains adjacent to the Van Nuys Metrolink stop due to the presence of an
eligible East San Fernando Valley Light Rail Transit stop.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 36

Review by the California Department of Housing and Community Development

The Department continues to actively coordinate with state agencies, regional agencies, and
other municipalities to refine interpretations on key provisions including those applicable to the
adoption and implementation of local ordinances. After further review it was determined that
delayed effectuation ordinances become effective immediately upon their operative date,
therefore allowing the City until June 30, 2026, to effectuate any ordinance associated with
Approaches B or C (discussed in Section III above). Following adoption, any implementing
ordinance would be subject to HCD review, pursuant to the procedures and timelines described
in GCS 65912.160 including a maximum 120-day review period, that may result in the need for
corrections. The City remains in communication with HCD to minimize the need for any future
corrections to legislative actions.

2025 and 2026 CTCAC Opportunity Map Data

The CTCAC and HCD Opportunity Area Map for 2026 was adopted in December 2025. Therefore,
the analysis of TOD zones included in this report is based on the 2026 Opportunity Area Maps.
Within the newly issued maps, approximately 99 census tracts have changed opportunity area
categories, including 29 tracts which were reclassified as lower opportunity, 52 tracts which were
reclassified as moderate opportunity, and 18 tracts which were reclassified as higher opportunity.
Within TOD zones, areas reclassified as lower opportunity include Montecito Heights, Van Nuys,
and parts of South Park. Those now designated as moderate opportunity include Highland Park
and Koreatown, and those now designated highest or high opportunity include Highland Park,
North Hollywood, and Chinatown.

APPENDIX B: TOD ZONE ANALYSIS

Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) Considerations

Taking a deeper look at the bill's AFFH impacts, Table 5 explores characteristics of sites located
in TOD zones based on their CTCAC designation. Percentages in each row are reflective of each
opportunity area's characteristic or the citywide ratio. As mentioned above, 57%33 of the City's
TOD zones have a majority of sites within designated lower opportunity areas, these TOD zones
fall largely within South and the eastern parts of Central Los Angeles. Conversely, about 30%13
of the City's TOD zones are majority higher opportunity, which are predominantly located in West
LA, the western parts of Central Los Angeles and South Valley.

33 This percentage is based on area calculations of an entire TOD zone by CTCAC designation, including
areas designated as "insufficient data."
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 37

Table 5. SB 79 Eligible Sites by CTCAC Designation

Opportunity Count of  Percent Percent Percent    Percent     Percent Percent Percent Percent

Area     SB 79        of SB Single RD and        MIIP        1-2      3+ RSO VHFHSZ Historic
         Sites34                                 Eligible35  RSO Units35 35
                      79  Family more                                        Preservation
                      Sites34 35  Restrictive35              Units35
                                                                             Overlay

                                                                             Zone
                                                                             (HPOZ)35

Lower    78,807 57% 36% 68%                      52%         13% 16% 2%      3%

Moderate 14,896 11% 40% 60%                      49%         9% 18% 14% 12%
                                                 40%
Higher   43,906 32% 54% 70%                      48%         12% 13% 19% 8%

Overall  137,609 100% 42% 68%                                12% 15% 9%      6%

34 Numbers and percentages for low, moderate, and higher opportunity areas in this column are summed

in the overall row at the bottom of the table.
35 Percentages for low, moderate, and higher opportunity areas are based on the count of parcels for that

category. The overall percentage is based on the number of eligible SB 79 parcels citywide.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 38

Table 6. SB 79 TOD zone Characteristics by APC Area*

Area Planning Total Number  TOD zones TOD zones TOD zones              TOD zones TOD zones

Commission  of Transit      that have a that have a with more          with more          located within
(APC)       Oriented
            Development     majority of majority of than 10% of        than 10% of the Very High

                            parcels zoned parcels zoned parcels        parcels            Fire Hazard

            (TOD) Zones     for Low-      Single Family containing 1-  located within Severity Zone

                            density (RD               2 Rent           a Historic

                            or more                   Stabilized       Preservation

                            restrictive)              Ordinance        Overlay Zone

                            TOD zones                 Units

Central Los 40              6.5           2           10               7.5                7
Angeles

East Los    12.5            12            5           9.5              4                  9

Angles

Harbor Area 0               0             0           0                0                  0

North Valley 10.5           9.5           8.5         3                0                  1

South Los   35              26.5          8           25               4.5                0

Angeles

South Valley 28.5           23.5          23.5        3                2                  4

West Los    14.5            6             4           .5               0                  2

Angeles

TOTAL       141             84            52          51               18                 23

*Note that TOD zones which are split across multiple APCs are counted as 0.5 toward each
APC total.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 39

Table 7. SB 79 TOD zone Majority CTCAC Designation by APC Area*

Area        Total Transit  Majority Majority
Planning    Oriented
Commission  Development    Lower  Moderate
(APC)       (TOD) Zones
                           Opportunity Opportunity

                           TOD zones TOD zones

Central Los 40             21.5   5
Angeles

East Los    12.5           5.5    2

Angles

Harbor Area 0              0      0

North Valley 10.5          8.5    0
South Los 35
Angeles                    34     0

South Valley 28.5          10.5   3

West Los    14.5           4      0

Angeles

TOTAL       141            84     10

*Note that TOD zones which are split across multiple APCs are counted as 0.5 toward each
APC total.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 40

Table 8. 20 Transit Oriented Development (TOD) zones with the highest percentage of
sites with 1-2 Rent Stabilization Ordinance (RSO) units

Area Planning     TOD zone Name                  Percent of Sites with Majority CTCAC/HCD
Commission (APC)  K Extension - La Brea/Beverly
                                                 1-2 RSO Units (%)  Opportunity Map
Central
                                                                    Designation*

                                                 22                 Higher

                  D Extension - Wilshire/Fairfax 22                 Higher
                                                                    Higher
                  D Extension - Wilshire/La                         Lower

                  Cienega                        21

East LA           E-Indiana                      29

                  Metrolink ­ Glendale           24                 Higher

                  E-Soto                         23                 Lower

                  E-Mariachi Plaza               18                 Lower

                  A-Heritage Square              16                 Lower
                                                                    Lower
South LA          Vermont BRT - Slauson Ave      26

                  E - Expo/Western               25                 Lower

                  A ­ Vernon                     24                 Lower

                  Vermont BRT - Vernon Ave       22                 Lower

                  A ­ Slauson                    21                 Lower

                  E - Expo/La Brea               20                 Lower

                  K - Crenshaw/Adams             19                 Lower

                  Vermont BRT - W Adams Blvd 18                     Lower

                  E - Expo/Vermont               17                 Lower
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 41

Central, East LA   B/Vermont BRT -
Central, South LA
                   Vermont/Sunset    17               Mixed
                                                      Higher
                   K Extension - Pico/San Vicente 36

                   A - San Pedro St  16               Lower

*TOD zones with a CTCAC/HCD Opportunity Area Map designation of "Mixed" do not have a
single map category that exceeds 50% of the TOD zone area.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 42

Table 9. Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Zones with Sites in Very High Fire Hazard
Severity Zones (VHFHSZs)

TOD Zone Name                            Percentage of TOD zone  Count of Sites in TOD zone
                                         within VHFHSZs by Lot   within VHFHSZs by Lot
A-Southwest Museum                       Area (%)*               Area
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-Colorado Boulevard  100                     1951
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-E Broadway          100                     875
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-W Alameda Avenue    100                     33
B - University City/Studio City          96                      5
A-Heritage Square                        87                      724
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-Eagle Rock          86                      1854
Boulevard
SP-UCLA Ackerman Union                   82                      1494
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-Townsend Avenue     81                      28
A-Lincoln/Cypress                        78                      1612
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-W Riverside Drive   77                      465
A-Highland Park                          73                      15
SP - Ventura Blvd                        56                      1103
A-Chinatown                              53                      729
B/K Extension - Hollywood/Highland       51                      347
Metro 234 -Ventura Boulevard             49                      718
B - Hollywood/Vine                       35                      504
B - Hollywood/Western                    33                      457
D Extension/SP - Westwood/UCLA           31                      459
D/Vermont BRT - Vermont/Sunset           28                      1
Metrolink - Glendale                     8                       212
G Line - Nordhoff                        7                       40
                                         4                       28
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 43

TOD Zone Name               Percentage of TOD zone  Count of Sites in TOD zone
                            within VHFHSZs by Lot   within VHFHSZs by Lot
                            Area (%)*               Area

Metro 70 - N Spring Street  3                       27

*Note that the above percentages only account for sites within TOD zones that are located within the City
of Los Angeles.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 44

Table 10. Historic Preservation Overlay Zones (HPOZs) with Sites in Transit Oriented
Development (TOD) Zones

                 Number of

                 Intersecting

                 Transit       Number of

Historic         Oriented      HPOZ       Percentage of Percentage of Land in a
Preservation
Overlay Zone     Development Sites in HPOZ Area in TOD zone Designated

                 (TOD) Zones TOD zones a TOD zones as an HPOZ (%)

Adams-Normandie 1              717        97  Vermont BRT - W Adams
                                              Blvd: 38

Carthay Circle   2             450        99  D  Extension            -

                                              Wilshire/Fairfax: 17

                                              D Extension - Wilshire/La
                                              Cienega: 17

Carthay Square   1             61         18  D  Extension            -

                                              Wilshire/Fairfax: 4

Hancock Park     2             393        32  K Extension - La
                                              Brea/Beverly: 14

                                              D Extension/K Extension -
                                              Wilshire/La Brea: 6

Highland Park - 3              2907       74  A-Heritage Square: 26
Garvanza                                      A-Highland Park: 79

                                              A-Southwest Museum: 38

Hollywood Grove  1             87         63  B-Hollywood/Western: 6

Jefferson Park   1             35         2   E-Expo/Western: 1

La Fayette Square 1            95         40  K Extension - Pico/San
                                              Vicente: 5

Lincoln Heights  2             263        27  A-Heritage Square: 6

                                              A-Lincoln/Cypress: 25

Miracle Mile     3             847        64  K Extension - Pico/San
                                              Vicente: 3

                                              D Extension/K Extension -
                                              Wilshire/La Brea: 20

                                              D  Extension            -

                                              Wilshire/Fairfax: 29
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 45

                    Number of

                    Intersecting

                    Transit       Number of

Historic            Oriented      HPOZ       Percentage of Percentage of Land in a
Preservation
Overlay Zone        Development Sites in HPOZ Area in TOD zone Designated
Adams-Normandie
Carthay Circle      (TOD) Zones TOD zones a TOD zones as an HPOZ (%)
Miracle Mile North
Pico-Union          1             717        97  Vermont BRT - W Adams

South Carthay                                    Blvd: 38
University Park
                    2             450        99  D         Extension    -

                                                 Wilshire/Fairfax: 17

                                                 D Extension - Wilshire/La
                                                 Cienega: 17

                    2             482        81  D Extension - La

                                                 Brea/Beverly: 22

                                                 D Extension/K Extension -
                                                 Wilshire/La Brea: <1

                    8             190        23  A/E - Pico: 4

                                                 A - Grand/LATTC: <1

                                                 Metro 81 - Pico
                                                 Boulevard: 15

                                                 Metro 81 - Venice
                                                 Boulevard: 17

                                                 Metro 81 - W 12th Street:
                                                 6

                                                 Metro 81 - W Washington
                                                 Boulevard: 8

                                                 B/D - Westlake/MacArthur
                                                 Park: 2

                                                 Vermont BRT - Pico Blvd:
                                                 2

                    1             41         11  D Extension - Wilshire/La

                                                 Cienega: 3

                    8             576        88  A - Grand/LATTC: 17

                                                 E - Jefferson/USC: <1

                                                 E - LATTC/Ortho Institute:
                                                 23
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 46

                 Number of

                 Intersecting

                 Transit       Number of

Historic         Oriented      HPOZ       Percentage of Percentage of Land in a
Preservation
Overlay Zone     Development Sites in HPOZ Area in TOD zone Designated

Adams-Normandie  (TOD) Zones TOD zones a TOD zones as an HPOZ (%)

                 1             717        97   Vermont BRT - W Adams

                                               Blvd: 38

Carthay Circle   2             450        99   D         Extension      -

                                               Wilshire/Fairfax: 17

                                               D Extension - Wilshire/La
                                               Cienega: 17

                                               Metro 81 - Pico
                                               Boulevard: <1

                                               Metro 81 - Venice
                                               Boulevard: 19

                                               Metro 81 - W 23rd Street:
                                               37

                                               Metro 81 - W Washington
                                               Boulevard: 33

                                               Vermont BRT - W Adams
                                               Blvd: 13

Van Nuys         3             255        100  ESFV/SP-              Van

                                               Nuys/Oxnard: <1

                                               ESFV-Van
                                               Nuys/Vanowen: 15

                                               ESFV-Van Nuys/Victory:
                                               13

West Adams Terrace 1           115        23   K         Extension      -

                                               Crenshaw/Adams: 5

Whitley Heights  1             124        52   B/K       Extension      -

                                               Hollywood/Highland: 8

Wilshire Park    1             102        20   D - Wilshire/Western: 8

Windsor Square   1             65         6    D - Wilshire/Western: 5
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 47

Table 11. Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Zones with 20% or Greater Zoned
Industrial

Area Planning               TOD zone Name                    Percentage of             Majority TCAC
Commission                  A/B/D/Metrolink - Union Station  Industrial Area           Designation*
                                                             (%)
Central                                                                                Mixed
                                                             27

                                                                                   22  Higher
                            K Extension - La Brea/Santa Monica

South Los Angeles           A ­ Vernon                       39                        Lower

South Los Angeles,          A ­ Washington                   79                        Lower
Central

East LA, Central            E Pico/Aliso                     30                        Lower

North Valley                G ­ Nordhoff                     57                        Mixed

                                                                                   36  Lower
                            ESFV-Van Nuys/San Fernando

                            G ­ Chatsworth                   27                        Higher

                                                                                   20  Lower
                            ESFV-Van Nuys/Roscoe

North Valley, South Valley  Metro 234 - Roscoe Boulevard     32                        Lower

                            G ­ Roscoe                       28                        Lower

South Valley                ESFV/SP-Van Nuys                 56                        Lower

                                                                                   25  Lower
                            Metro 234 - Saticoy Street

West                        C/K - Aviation/Century           26                        Moderate

                                                                                   21  Higher
                            K Line-Westchester/Veterans

                                                                                   21  Higher
                            C - LAX/Metro Transit Center

*TOD zones with a CTCAC/HCD Opportunity Area Map designation of "Mixed" do not have a single map

category that exceeds 50% of the TOD zone area.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 48

APPENDIX C: DELAYED EFFECTUATION ANALYSIS

Table 12. Delayed Effectuation Eligibility Summary Table

                 Local and SB79 Allowable Capacity                                            Delayed Effectuation (DE) Eligibility Criteria

          Local Max. 79 Max.   Local Floor 79 Floor      Lower        Station    Majority     Site Level  Very High  1 foot     Local         1-mile      Parcels Parcels
                                                                      Area       Lower                    Fire                  Historic                  Eligible for Statutorily
          Potential Potential  Area1  Area2              Opportunity  Density    Opportunity  Density     Hazard     Sea Level  Resources     walking     any DE Exempt
                                                         Areas3       and FAR 4  Stations5    and FAR 6   Severity   Rise 8                   distance10  Criteria from SB79
          Units  Units                                                                                    Zones7                9

Number    6,876,877 2,447,945  3,391,921,01 3,165,270,5  62,922       53,699     59,839       38,689 10,620          0          6,760         294 98,981 26,320
of City
Parcels                        6      68

Percent                                                  56.16% 47.92% 53.40% 34.53% 9.48%                           0.00% 6.03% 0.26% 88.34% 19.02%
of City
Parcels

Number                                                                83         79
of
Stations

1 Maximum allowable building volume that could be developed under local zoning rules.
2 Maximum allowable building volume that could be developed under SB79.
3 Sites eligible for delayed effectuation of SB79 due to being located in a lower opportunity area as designated by the California Tax Credit Allocation Committee (TCAC).
4 Station Hubs where both (a) at least 33 percent of lots produce at least 50% of density and FAR of SB79 and (b) lots estimated to produce at least 75% of the density of SB79.
5 Station Hubs where (a) at least 50% of station area is designated as TCAC lower opportunity area and, (b) 40% of the aggregated density of SB79.
6 Sites meeting 50% density and FAR of SB 79.
7 Sites that are in Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zones (VHFHSZ).
8 Sites that are in areas vulnerable to one foot of sea level rise.
9 Sites contain historic resources designated before January 1, 2025 on the City's local register.
10 Sites that are beyond one-mile walking distance from the SB79 TOD stop.
CF 25-1083 Appendix B, Table 13_Delayed Effectuation Eligibility by Station Area

Table 13. Delayed Effectuation Eligibility by Station Area

Station Hub                   Local            79 Maximum       Local Floor     79 Floor Area   Parcels in      Station Areas  Lower          Parcels       Parcels in Very  Parcels in      Parcels        Parcels within                          Parcels      Total Parcels     Parcels          Percent of
                              Maximum          Potential Units       Area                       Lower           Eligible for   Opportunity    Eligible for  High Fire        One-Foot Sea    Designated as  1-mile Walking   Total Parcels Statutorily           Eligible for      Eligible for SB  Station Area
                              Potential Units                                                   Opportunity     Delayed        Station Areas  Delayed       Hazard           Level Rise      a Local        Distance of a    in Station Area Exempt from         Delayed           79               Eligible for
                                                                                                Areas Eligible  Effectuation   Eligible for   Effectuation  Severity Zones   Areas Eligible  Historic       Station                                              Effectuation                       Delay
                                                                                                for Delayed     Due to         Delayed        Due to        Eligible for     for Delayed     Resource       Entrance                                SB79
                                                                                                Effectuation    Existing       Effectuation   Existing      Delayed          Effectuation    Eligible for   Eligible for SB
                                                                                                                Capacity                      Capacity      Effectuation                     Delayed        79 Exemption
                                                                                                                               No                                                            Effectuation
                                                                                                                               Yes
A-Chinatown                   166,511          27,436           18,395,829      35,985,157       57 Yes                        No             544                   277 -                       16 -                         821     202                         619               0                100.00%
A-Heritage Square              15,954          31,354           23,676,058      40,876,985      816 No                         Yes            355                 1,589 -
A-Highland Park                35,659          25,916           36,048,055      33,468,935      339 Yes                        No             954                                               514            53            2,034   300                         1,734             0                100.00%
A-Lincoln/Cypress              27,144          22,208           30,397,116      28,979,650      762 Yes                        No             384                   892 -
A-Little Tokyo/Arts District  212,727          23,300           24,358,356      30,506,447      301 Yes                                       450 -                 319 -                       1,493 -                      2,327   464                         1,863             0                100.00%
A-Southwest Museum             12,507          27,243           15,782,159      35,311,559      210 No                         Yes            154
A/RED/PUR/Metrolink-Union                                                                                                      Yes                                         -                    184 -                        1065    273                         792               0                100.00%
Station                       148,493          27,948                                                                          Yes                                1,736 -
BLU-103rd St/Watts Towers      16,549          29,920                                                                          Yes                                                              23 -                         594     134                         460               0                100.00%
BLU-Firestone                    1,595                                                                                         Yes
BLU-Grand/LATTC                                 2,970                                                                          Yes                                                              567            41            1,949   213                         1,736             0                100.00%
BLU-San Pedro St              225,946          27,551                                                                          Yes
BLU-Slauson                    95,010          21,794            16,671,197     35,695,172         63 Yes                      Yes            267 -                          -                  9-                             565   263                         302               0                100.00%
BLU-Vernon                       8,366         10,216            31,079,135     38,753,371      2121 No                        Yes                                                                                           2,291
BLU-Washington                 10,843          14,544                                                                                         380 -                          -                  2-                                   170                         2,121             0                100.00%
BLU/EXP-Pico                     9,171                             2,339,924     3,844,435         60 No                       Yes                                                                                               81
BLU/EXP/RED/PUR-7th                             6,714            64,116,710     35,333,458       621 Yes                                                    42 -             -               -              -                  890                           21  60                0                100.00%
St/Metro Center               632,608          34,992            39,052,186     28,456,369       804 Yes                       No                                                                                            1,581
BLU/GRN-Willowbrook/Rosa                                         15,929,209     13,282,436       677 Yes                       Yes            612 -                          -                  108 -                          765   222                         668               0                100.00%
Parks                         860,279          46,607            21,639,932     18,710,234      1306 No                        No                                                                                            1,770
CRN-Crenshaw/Adams                                                 8,728,237                     367 Yes                       No             726 -                          -                  3-                           1253    477                         1,104             0                100.00%
CRN-La Brea/Beverly              6,154         16,253           128,428,457      8,678,816       425 Yes                       No                                                                                              725
CRN-La Brea/Santa Monica       25,040          24,142                           45,079,341                                     Yes            469 -                          -               -              -                                                88  677               0                100.00%
CRN-Pico/Rimpau                51,557          31,079                                                                          Yes
E-Indiana                      94,530          12,842                                                                          Yes            770 -                          -                  1-                                   464                         1,306             0                100.00%
E-Mariachi Plaza               75,018          25,741                                                                          Yes
E-Pico/Aliso                                   11,110                                                                          No             269 -                          -               -              -                        829                         424               0                100.00%
E-Soto                           5,062         21,334
ESFV-Van Nuys/Arleta           16,735          18,437                                                                          No             662 -                          -                  36 -                                                         61  664               0                100.00%
ESFV-Van Nuys/Laurel           32,173          20,356                                                                          Yes
Canyon                         19,832          29,653           177,256,396     59,306,448      463 Yes                        Yes            677 -                          -                  93 -                         728                             48  680               0                100.00%
ESFV-Van Nuys/Nordhoff
ESFV-Van Nuys/Roscoe             6,110         33,112           13,614,334      21,323,991       971 No                        Yes                          94 -             -               -              -                1014                            31  975               8                99.19%
ESFV-Van Nuys/San                              32,508           31,703,004      31,211,708      1734 Yes                       Yes                                                                                           2,172
Fernando                         9,296         30,565           24,289,204      40,388,943                                     Yes            914 -                          -                  107 -                        2152    422                         1,750             0                100.00%
ESFV-Van Nuys/Sherman          41,235                           28,383,153      16,692,621           0 No                      Yes                                                                                           1379
ESFV-Van Nuys/Vanowen          37,343          26,555           41,978,709      33,243,590           0 Yes                     Yes            263 -                          -                  760 -                        2,104   177                         999               976              50.58%
ESFV-Van Nuys/Victory                          33,550           10,288,960      14,261,212         26 Yes                      Yes                                                                                            1109
ESFV-Van Nuys/Woodman          11,029          34,152           21,089,849      27,572,921       924 No                                       611 -                          -                  4-                           1390    508                         871               0                100.00%
ESFV/SP-Van Nuys               36,161          25,212           14,645,312      24,023,220       839 No                        Yes
ESFV/SP-Van Nuys/Oxnard        37,975          32,695           23,795,389      26,297,130       468 No                        No             857 -                          -                  144 -                          928   494                         1,610             0                100.00%
(Orange)                       42,916          16,217           11,553,898      38,299,074      1220 No                        Yes                                                                                           1,996
EXP-Culver City                20,409                                                           1614 No                        No                           0-               -               -              -                1,647   185                         924               0                100.00%
EXP-Expo Park/USC              13,774          32,022                                                                          Yes
EXP-Expo/Bundy                                  9,817                                                                          Yes                          0-               -                  2-                                   471                         919               0                100.00%
EXP-Expo/Crenshaw              48,923                                                                                          Yes
EXP-Expo/La Brea               68,317          29,648                                                                          Yes                          36 -             -                  3-                                   424                         504               0                100.00%
EXP-Expo/Vermont               61,774          17,045                                                                          Yes
EXP-Expo/Western               94,797          31,166                                                                          Yes                          0-               -                  5-                                   654                         1,342             0                100.00%
EXP-Farmdale                   26,960          28,967                                                                          Yes
EXP-Jefferson/USC              30,118          30,728                                                                          Yes                          26 -             -               -              -                                                33  1,614             0                100.00%
EXP-La Cienega/Jefferson       56,583          28,499                                                                          No
EXP-LATTC/Ortho Institute      15,012          25,180           11,011,164      42,983,928      2013 No                        No                           54 -             -               -              -                2,036                           23  2,013             0                100.00%
EXP-Palms                      25,164          29,505           95,151,066      42,813,881      1107 No                        No                                                                                            1,231
EXP-Westwood/Rancho Park       60,042          25,232           47,463,680      39,701,374      1343 No                        Yes            224 -                          -               -              -                1,528   104                         1,127             0                100.00%
EXP/SP-Expo/Sepulveda          35,946          24,062                                                                          No
GRN-Avalon                     47,979          22,074                                                                          Yes            201 -                          -               -              -                        185                         1,343             0                100.00%
GRN-Aviation/LAX              136,326          31,798
GRN-Harbor Freeway             41,929          26,945           12,179,950      34,412,236      1543 No                                       164 -                          -                  1-                           1,645   102                         1,543             0                100.00%
                               66,431          21,229           33,438,118      43,604,624      1630 No
                               11,914                           32,057,358      44,266,900      1358 Yes                                      284 -                          -               -              -                1,748   118                         1,630             0                100.00%
                                                      0         35,820,354      32,771,149      1001 Yes
                                       0       19,744           52,527,969      42,748,759      1289 No                                       417 -                          -                  243 -                        1,622   133                         1,489             0                100.00%
                               12,584                           14,709,193      20,658,121
                                                                                                 710 No                                       736 -                          -                  206 -                        1,574   397                         1,177             0                100.00%

                                                                                                                                                            73 -             -               -              -                1,408                           34  1,374             0                100.00%

                                                                                                                                                            82 -             -               -                 4             994     284                         710               0                100.00%

                                                                34,081,795      40,447,666       809 Yes                                      689 -                          -                  10 -                         1,937   491                         1,446                  0           100.00%
                                                                20,669,259      12,735,781           0 Yes                                                                                                                     851                                                      0           100.00%
                                                                48,298,903      38,002,487                                                    478 -                          -                  1-                             504   262                         589                    0           100.00%
                                                                27,774,572      22,134,311       338 Yes                                                                                                                                                                                0           100.00%
                                                                33,949,511      40,161,771           0 Yes                                    312 -                          -                  4-                           1,277   166                         338                    0           100.00%
                                                                45,591,697      37,823,542                                                                                                                                   2,325                                                      0           100.00%
                                                                51,588,503      39,437,275      1169 Yes                                      490 -                          -               -              -                1,825   242                         1,035                  0           100.00%
                                                                26,762,480      36,631,012      1466 Yes                                                                                                                      1156                                                      0           100.00%
                                                                36,240,846      32,349,756                                                    650 -                          -                  1-                           2,868   254                         2,071                  0           100.00%
                                                                42,636,382      37,934,301       784 Yes                                                                                                                     1,960                                                      0           100.00%
                                                                46,482,934      32,835,038      2503 No                                       990 -                          -                  6-                                   339                         1,486                  0           100.00%
                                                                41,551,132      31,035,060      1270 Yes                                                                                                                       704                                                      0           100.00%
                                                                40,166,148      28,827,446                                                    719 -                          -                  3-                           1,154   372                         784                    0           100.00%
                                                                17,309,938      41,055,695       292 Yes                                                                                                                     1014                                                  1966
                                                                20,878,094      33,858,227       806 Yes                                      866 -                          -                  34 -                         1,675   365                         2,503             1188                9.86%
                                                                22,971,364      27,243,261       493 Yes                                                                                                                     2245                                                       0            16.28%
                                                                                                                                              799 -                          -               -              -                1690    220                         1,740                  0           100.00%
                                                                             0               0       0 Yes                                                                                                                   1,876                                                      0           100.00%
                                                                21,779,674      25,636,975           0 No                                     265 -                          -                  13 -                                 412                         292                                100.00%
                                                                                                     0 No                                                                                                                        38
                                                                                                1717 No                                       378 -                          -                  1-                           1,711   135                         1,019
                                                                                                     0 No
                                                                                                1508 No                                       507 -                          -                  162 -                                453                         561

                                                                                                                                              455 -                          -               -              -                        561                         1,114

                                                                                                                                              215 -                          -               -              -                                                64  215

                                                                                                                                              231 -                          -               -              -                        271                         231

                                                                                                                                              616 -                          -               -              -                        159                         1,717

                                                                                                                                                            0-               -               -              -                                                38                 0

                                                                                                                                              431 -                          -               -              -                        203                         1,508

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
CF 25-1083 Appendix B, Table 13_Delayed Effectuation Eligibility by Station Area

Table 13. Delayed Effectuation Eligibility by Station Area

Station Hub                    Local            79 Maximum       Local Floor  79 Floor Area  Parcels in      Station Areas  Lower          Parcels           Parcels in Very  Parcels in      Parcels        Parcels within                          Parcels      Total Parcels     Parcels          Percent of
                               Maximum          Potential Units       Area                   Lower           Eligible for   Opportunity    Eligible for      High Fire        One-Foot Sea    Designated as  1-mile Walking   Total Parcels Statutorily           Eligible for      Eligible for SB  Station Area
                               Potential Units                                               Opportunity     Delayed        Station Areas  Delayed           Hazard           Level Rise      a Local        Distance of a    in Station Area Exempt from         Delayed           79               Eligible for
                                                                                             Areas Eligible  Effectuation   Eligible for   Effectuation      Severity Zones   Areas Eligible  Historic       Station                                              Effectuation                       Delay
                                                                                             for Delayed     Due to         Delayed        Due to            Eligible for     for Delayed     Resource       Entrance                                SB79
                                                                                             Effectuation    Existing       Effectuation   Existing          Delayed          Effectuation    Eligible for   Eligible for SB
                                                                                                             Capacity                      Capacity          Effectuation                     Delayed        79 Exemption
                                                                                                                            No                                                                Effectuation
                                                                                                                            No
GRN-Vermont/Athens                5,008         13,177            7,709,381   17,034,441      829 No                        No                           85 -                 -               -              -                929                             97  829               3                99.64%
GRN/K Line-Aviation/96th St     17,481          10,142           22,858,722   13,426,424          0 Yes                     Yes
GRN/K Line-Aviation/Century     15,054                           20,543,650   12,756,993          0 Yes                     Yes                          38 -                 -               -              -                231    155                          76                0                100.00%
K Line-Crenshaw/Exposition      27,563           9,644           34,445,487   41,530,284                                    Yes
K Line-Crenshaw/MLK             34,788          32,208           25,132,446   34,991,977     1157 Yes                       Yes                          12 -                 -               -              -                181    127                          54                0                100.00%
K Line-Crenshaw/Slauson         28,860          27,090           31,235,333   39,950,737      749 No                        No
K Line-Crenshaw/Vernon          26,777          30,773           18,541,908   23,679,964     2089 No                        Yes            634 -                              -                  1-                           2,375  249                          2,126             0                100.00%
K Line-Florence/Hindy                           18,464                        14,443,663      928 Yes                       Yes
K Line-Florence/West              2,977         11,176            4,905,922   50,421,904                                                   195 -                              -                  4-                           1,639  270                          1,369             0                100.00%
Metro 234 - Parthenia Street    18,583          38,662           18,541,951   37,596,514          0 No                      Yes
Metro 234 - Roscoe              31,208          28,644           55,701,638                   709 No                        Yes            440 -                              -                  2-                           2,468  284                          2,184             0                100.00%
Boulevard                                                                                     598 Yes                       Yes
Metro 234 - Saticoy Street      25,770          25,993                                                                      Yes            301 -                              -                  2-                           1261   272                          989               0                100.00%
Metro 234 - Sherman Way         17,425          25,277                                                                      No
Metro 234 - Vanowen Street      23,303          33,066                                                                                                   93 -                 -               -              -                859                             46  93                720              11.44%
Metro 234 - Victory Boulevard   21,880          32,091                                                                      No
Metro 234 -Ventura              15,555          26,175                                                                      No             358 -                              -                  1-                           952    221                          731               0                100.00%
Boulevard                                                                                                                   Yes
Metro 33 - Venice Boulevard     93,023          28,474                                                                      Yes            192 -                              -               -              -                892    183                          709               0                100.00%
Metro 70 - N Spring Street     101,455          11,682                                                                      Yes
Metro 78 - N Spring Street     152,524          18,623           44,896,349   33,854,544      810 No                        Yes            123 -                              -               -              -                1013   153                          860               0                100.00%
Metro 81 - Olympic Boulevard   284,198          22,589           19,394,800   32,786,771     1060 No                        Yes                                                                                               1,209
Metro 81 - Pico Boulevard      799,560          36,272           31,796,148   42,810,782     1338 No                        Yes            118 -                              -               -              -                1,410  149                          1,060             0                100.00%
Metro 81 - Venice Boulevard    517,163          32,452           27,298,747   41,608,063     1185 No                        Yes                                                                                               1,468
Metro 81 - W 12th Street       360,609          28,874           18,426,323   33,842,432                                                   133 -                              -               -              -                1352                            72  1,338             0                100.00%
Metro 81 - W 23rd Street       633,746          33,512                                        971 No                        Yes
Metro 81 - W Washington                         21,722                                                                      Yes                          90 -                 -               -              -                       114                          1,354             0                100.00%
Boulevard                       41,805                                                                                      Yes
Metro 910 - N Spring Street                     27,972                                                                      Yes                          87 -                 -               -              -                       159                          997               196              83.57%
Metro 910 - S Figueroa Street  244,908          22,054
Metro 910 - W Aliso Street     301,506          31,265            30,981,615  37,250,978        0 No                        Yes            220                 466 -                          -              -                1425                            87  641               697              47.91%
Metro 910/70 - N Spring        705,913          20,112            32,701,587  15,135,992        0 Yes                       No             469 -                     -
Street                         193,640                            17,307,910  24,279,536     104 Yes                                       318                                                   1-                           1200   472                          728               0                100.00%
Metrolink - Glendale                            21,637            40,525,999  29,254,049     238 Yes                        No             349 -                14 -
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-          298,735          16,406           165,420,261  46,877,674     338 Yes                                       566 -                     -                           14 -                         540    194                          346               0                100.00%
Colorado Boulevard              15,022                           114,760,246  41,651,828     459 Yes                        No             623 -                     -
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-E                          15,566            89,339,150  36,903,147     495 Yes                                       528 -                     -                           24 -                         464    102                          362               0                100.00%
Broadway                        13,323                           131,076,216  43,234,663     387 Yes                        No             603 -                     -
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-                               487           37,897,546  28,053,151     387 Yes                                       446 -                     -                           42 -                         625                             58  567               0                100.00%
Eagle Rock Boulevard                347                                                                                     No                                       -
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-                           29,828                                                                                                                                           83 -                         750    126                          624               0                100.00%
Hesby Street                    58,452                                                                                      No
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-                           27,997                                                                                                                                           177 -                        761    193                          568               0                100.00%
Townsend Avenue                240,571                                                                                      No
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-W                          33,934                                                                                                                                           42 -                         692                             87  605               0                100.00%
Alameda Avenue                  31,201                                                                                      No
NOHO to Pasadena BRT-W                              550                                                                     No                                                                   221 -                        889    374                          515               0                100.00%
Riverside Drive                         2                                                                                   No
Orange Line - Balboa                             5,204            74,170,216  35,765,005     465 Yes                        No             498 -                              -                  224 -                        800    237                          563               0                100.00%
Orange Line - Canoga              5,671         42,354            43,963,352  28,466,931     260 Yes                        No                                                                    32 -
Orange Line - Chatsworth          4,799         41,165           150,103,468  41,037,033     361 Yes                        No             350 -                              -                   65 -                        464    102                          362               0                100.00%
Orange Line - De Soto           54,623          33,759            24,270,915  26,077,175     155 Yes                        No                                                                    19 -
Orange Line - Laurel Canyon    243,419          34,678                                                                      No             502 -                              -                                               541                             38  503               0                100.00%
Orange Line - Nordhoff          35,886          24,966                                                                      No
Orange Line - Pierce College   132,340          36,123                                                                      Yes            296 -                              -                                               460    144                          316               0                100.00%
Orange Line - Reseda           143,160          23,277                                                                      No
Orange Line - Roscoe              3,255         28,344           43,915,619   27,933,011     277 Yes                        Yes            359 -                              -                  35 -                         474    104                          370               0                100.00%
Orange Line - Sepulveda        146,074          28,479            7,743,717   21,144,927        0 No                        No
Orange Line - Sherman Way       32,786          11,927                                                                      No             126                 7-                             -                 168           1273   166                          300               807              27.10%
Orange Line - Tampa             14,523          28,294
Orange Line - Valley College    38,698          37,622           6,261,776    20,228,504                     0 No                                        60    830 -                             6-                           866                             36  830               0                100.00%
                                12,329          27,374
                                17,168                           311,229      628,762                        0 No                                        0     28 -                           -              -                32                              4   28                0                100.00%

                                                                 19,828,990   38,749,710                     0 No                          330                 1,425 -                           11 -                         1,892  147                          1,609             136              92.21%

                                                                 70,626,340   36,702,750                     0 Yes                         906 -                              -                  4-                           1,655  381                          1,274             0                100.00%

                                                                 15,200,989   44,158,139                     0 No                          182                 1,557 -                           6-                           2,197                           79  1,619             499              76.44%

                                                                 135,312      747,086                        0 No                                        0     2-                             -                 2             4                               2                  2  0                100.00%

                                                                  2,662,253    6,899,915          0 No                                      46                  4-                            -                 1             287                             4   47                236              16.61%
                                                                  4,313,167   53,102,081      563 No                                        44 -                    -
                                                                 61,449,367   54,246,243      319 Yes                                      131 -                    -                         -                 2             657                             26  566               65               89.70%
                                                                 66,723,459   44,750,493                                                   259 -                    -
                                                                 40,104,679   45,359,748          0 No                                      79 -                    -                         -              -                416                             65  351               0                100.00%
                                                                 42,543,166   32,600,253      535 No                                       343 -                    -
                                                                 39,030,959   48,148,775                                                   100                                                   2              13            887                             29  272               586              31.70%
                                                                  6,976,493   30,476,918          0 Yes                                     12 -               24 -
                                                                 61,036,944   37,274,511      145 Yes                                      103 -                    -                         -              -                627                             53  570               4                99.30%
                                                                 32,039,005   37,639,837      674 No                                        72 -                    -
                                                                  8,598,764   15,394,629                                                    37 -                    -                            2-                           1,743  372                          1,371             0                100.00%
                                                                 36,358,161   37,101,289        47 No                                      462 -                    -
                                                                 15,725,364   49,312,714     1069 No                                        30 -                    -                         -              -                403                             64  339               0                100.00%
                                                                 11,130,626   35,533,202                                                    68 -                    -
                                                                                              394 No                                                                -                            2-                           1257                            16  676               565              54.47%
                                                                                             1230 Yes
                                                                                                                                                                                              -              -                1177   104                          106               967              9.88%
                                                                                                  4 No
                                                                                                  0 No                                                                                        -              -                1,192  123                          1,069             0                100.00%

                                                                                                                                                                                              -              -                668    137                          407               124              76.65%

                                                                                                                                                                                                 2-                           1,407  177                          1,230             0                100.00%

                                                                                                                                                                                              -              -                1680                            39  33                1608             2.01%

                                                                                                                                                                                                 1-                           1602                            86  69                1447             4.55%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
CF 25-1083 Appendix B, Table 13_Delayed Effectuation Eligibility by Station Area

Table 13. Delayed Effectuation Eligibility by Station Area

                                                                                          Parcels in      Station Areas  Lower          Parcels       Parcels in Very  Parcels in      Parcels                                  Parcels within
                                                                                          Lower           Eligible for   Opportunity    Eligible for  High Fire        One-Foot Sea    Designated as
Station Hub                 Local            79 Maximum       Local Floor  79 Floor Area  Opportunity     Delayed        Station Areas  Delayed       Hazard           Level Rise      a Local                                  1-mile Walking   Total Parcels    Parcels          Total Parcels  Parcels          Percent of
                            Maximum          Potential Units       Area                   Areas Eligible  Effectuation   Eligible for   Effectuation  Severity Zones   Areas Eligible  Historic                                 Distance of a    in Station Area  Statutorily      Eligible for   Eligible for SB  Station Area
                            Potential Units                                               for Delayed     Due to         Delayed        Due to        Eligible for     for Delayed     Resource                                 Station                           Exempt from      Delayed        79               Eligible for
                                                                                          Effectuation    Existing       Effectuation   Existing      Delayed          Effectuation    Eligible for                             Entrance                          SB79             Effectuation                    Delay
                                                                                                          Capacity                      Capacity      Effectuation                     Delayed                                  Eligible for SB
                                                                                                                                                                                       Effectuation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                79 Exemption

Orange Line - Van Nuys      43,852           25,995           30,331,734   33,232,114     774 Yes                        Yes            611 -                          -                                                    1-                   1,707            444              1,263          0                100.00%

Orange Line - Woodley       6,179            45,045           9,896,061    56,644,164     715 No                         No                           89 -             -               -                                        -                814                           98  715            1                99.86%

Orange Line - Woodman       22,928           29,220           18,796,255   38,026,766     365 No                         No             147 -                          -               -                                        -                1797             164              458            1175             28.05%

PUR-Wilshire/Normandie      102,047          30,029 107,699,492            37,941,692     366 Yes                        Yes            495 -                          -                                                    13 -                 1072             537              535            0                100.00%

PUR-Wilshire/Western        133,255          29,292           88,989,991   37,080,846     143 Yes                        No             566 -                          -                  150 -                                                  1245             493              752            0                100.00%

PURex-Century City          200,380          31,843           56,165,855   40,494,356                     0 No           No             110 -                          -                                                    2-                   609                           38  110            461              19.26%

PURex-Westwood/VA           57,208           32,477           19,526,435   41,721,910                     0 Yes          No             130                 1-                         -                                        -                265              130              135            0                100.00%
Hospital

PURex-Wilshire/Fairfax      153,218          32,175           51,712,716   40,576,878                     0 Yes          No             328 -                          -                  690 -                                                  1,610            290              1,320          0                100.00%

PURex-Wilshire/La Cienega   76,075           18,840           24,844,722   23,773,329                     0 Yes          No             284 -                          -                  250 -                                                  1,320            257              1,063          0                100.00%

PURex/CRN-Wilshire/La Brea  161,260          34,123           49,822,031   43,358,896                     0 Yes          No             301 -                          -                  387 -                                                  1,646            334              1,312          0                100.00%

PURex/SP-Westwood UCLA      196,105          37,803           56,139,471   47,958,905                     0 Yes          No             339 -                          -                                                    9-                   932              134              798            0                100.00%

RC-1st/Central              254,178          25,841           29,440,864   33,850,639     367 Yes                        Yes            580 -                          -                                                    26 -                 711              124              587            0                100.00%

RC-2nd/Broadway             449,402          23,130           71,697,626   30,054,074     412 Yes                        Yes            469 -                          -                                                    57 -                 565                           93  472            0                100.00%

RC-2nd/Hope                 401,511          23,406           89,721,775   30,752,917     183 Yes                        Yes            330 -                          -                                                    44                3  388                           50  338            0                100.00%

RED-Hollywood/Vine          67,170           29,547           55,025,886   37,591,578     341 Yes                        No             508                 252 -                                                           25 -                 1151             383              768            0                100.00%

RED-Hollywood/Western       51,004           27,204           48,292,726   34,640,713     459 Yes                        Yes            513                 358 -                                                           90 -                 1434             574              860            0                100.00%

RED-Universal City/Studio   72,550           41,829           19,977,887   53,235,676                     0 No           No             172                 678 -                                                           2                 5  969                           75  731            163              81.77%
City

RED-Vermont/Beverly         51,918           18,644           42,622,400   23,611,209     114 Yes                        No             713 -                          -                                                    2-                   1552             769              783            0                100.00%

RED/CRN-                    140,354          31,571           68,130,553   40,096,136     192 Yes                        No             668                 498 -                         162 -                                                  1,546            440              1,106          0                100.00%
Hollywood/Highland

RED/Orange Line-North       189,236          32,441           62,427,816   41,099,651     251 Yes                        No             812 -                          -                                                    3-                   1,489            309              1,180          0                100.00%
Hollywood

RED/PUR-Civic               431,467          29,547           69,612,566   37,433,874     307 Yes                        Yes            426 -                          -                                                    47 -                 561              127              434            0                100.00%
Center/Grand Park

RED/PUR-Pershing Square     826,956          42,321 134,980,120            53,523,608     632 Yes                        Yes            788 -                          -                  120 -                                                  867                           76  791            0                100.00%

RED/PUR-                    79,720           27,969           75,155,403   35,675,014     706 Yes                        Yes            710 -                          -                                                    20 -                 1191             430              761            0                100.00%
Westlake/Macarthur Park

RED/PUR/Vermont BRT-        113,219          33,580 104,279,935            42,643,771     399 Yes                        Yes            577 -                          -                                                    12 -                 1122             505              617            0                100.00%
Wilshire/Vermont

RED/Vermont BRT-            89,042           29,367           56,311,825   36,967,573     763 Yes                        Yes            927 -                          -               -                                        -                2,085            789              1,296          0                100.00%
Vermont/Santa Monica

RED/Vermont BRT-            120,814          31,338           56,451,091   39,536,646     354 Yes                        No             714                 154 -                                                           2-                   1,817            698              1,119          0                100.00%
Vermont/Sunset

SP-Santa Monica             182,017          18,522           63,064,712   23,469,937                     0 Yes          No             494 -                          -                                                    1-                   1285             463              822            0                100.00%

SP-UCLA Ackerman Union      36,398           8,354            15,246,612   10,747,994                     0 Yes          No             111                 21 -                                                            7                 2  370              146              224            0                100.00%

SP-Ventura/Van Nuys         161,161          37,151           45,441,848   47,300,117                     0 Yes          No             337                 660 -                                                           1-                   1,501            155              1,346          0                100.00%

Vermont BRT - Athens        4,732            12,694           7,366,736    16,405,183     796 No                         No                           81 -             -               -                                        -                890                           91  796            3                99.62%

Vermont BRT - Century Blvd  7,422            13,165           12,134,181   16,987,969     1256 No                        Yes            388 -                          -               -                                        -                1,410            154              1,256          0                100.00%

Vermont BRT - Florence Ave  71,441           56,151           75,834,100   72,335,034     2973 Yes                       Yes            1513 -                         -                                                    4-                   3,725            752              2,973          0                100.00%

Vermont BRT - Pico Blvd     52,209           19,479           46,349,055   25,434,753     1040 Yes                       Yes            1007 -                         -                                                    14 -                 1,730            690              1,040          0                100.00%

Vermont BRT - Slauson Ave   21,110           26,494           37,332,350   34,152,381     2242 Yes                       Yes            1625 -                         -                                                    3-                   2,742            500              2,242          0                100.00%

Vermont BRT - Vernon Ave    23,220           23,052           33,776,571   29,936,680     1758 Yes                       Yes            1131 -                         -               -                                        -                2,364            606              1,758          0                100.00%

Vermont BRT - W 3rd St      73,524           17,484           60,389,835   23,004,905     191 Yes                        No             544 -                          -                                                    5-                   1276             689              587            0                100.00%

Vermont BRT - W Adams       27,770           18,702           37,015,530   24,170,899     1085 Yes                       Yes            786 -                          -                  671 -                                                  1,862            659              1,203          0                100.00%
Blvd

Vermont BRT - W             21,507           18,359           29,083,049   23,724,640     1414 Yes                       Yes            751 -                          -               -                                        -                1,803            389              1,414          0                100.00%
Manchester Ave

Footnote: Parcels may be eligible for more than one Delayed Effectuation criteria, (i.e. located in both a Lower Opportunity Station Area and Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone), and parcels may appear more than once.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 52

Table 14. Station Level Attribute Summary - Metro 234 Ventura Boulevard

           Local     SB 79     Number    Number Percent     Eligible Total           Total
           Max Unit  Max Unit  of                           for DE5 Parcels          Parcels
           Total     Total     Parcels   of       of        (VHFHSZ) Exempt          Eligible
                               in                                                    for Delay
                               Transit   Parcels Parcels                    36 from
                               Oriented                                     SB 79
                               Develop   Equal to Equal to
                               ment
                               (TOD)     or       or
                               Zone
                                         Greater Greater

                                         than 50% than

                                         of SB 79 50% of

                                         Density SB79

                                         and      Density

                                         Floor    and

                                         Area     Floor

                                                  Area

Metro 234

-Ventura 93,023 28,474 1425                  220 15.44% 466              87          641
Boulevard

Table 15. Breakdown by Site Characteristics             Count and Percentage of Eligible
  Delayed Effectuation/Exempt Sites by                                    Sites
  Characteristics:
                                                                  10,620 sites (9%)
  Sites in a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone                   6,760 sites (6%)

  Locally Designated Historic Resources37                                    0
                                                                  294 sites (.002%)
  Sites in a Sea Level Rise Area

  Sites exempt because they are more than 1 mile
  from a station entrance

36 Including sites containing three or more RSO units, or land which does not permit residential units

including industrial land, open space, right of ways, and public facilities.
37Inclusive of HPOZs and HCMs
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 53

Table 16. TOD zones Ineligible for Delay at Station Level

Station Hub                           Percent of Station
                                      Area Eligible for
                                      Delay

1 BLU/GRN-Willowbrook/Rosa Parks      99.19%

2 CRN-La Brea/Beverly                 50.58%

3 EXP-Westwood/Rancho Park            9.86%

4 EXP/SP-Expo/Sepulveda               16.28%

5 GRN-Vermont/Athens                  99.64%

6 K Line-Florence/Hindry              11.44%

7 Metro 234 - Victory Boulevard       83.57%

8 Metro 234 -Ventura Boulevard        47.91%

 9 Metrolink - Glendale               27.10%
                                      92.21%
    NOHO to Pasadena BRT-Eagle Rock   76.44%
10 Boulevard                          16.61%

    NOHO to Pasadena BRT-Townsend
11 Avenue

    NOHO to Pasadena BRT-W Riverside
12 Drive

13 Orange Line - Balboa               89.70%

14 Orange Line - Chatsworth           31.70%

15 Orange Line - De Soto              99.30%

16 Orange Line - Pierce College       54.47%

17 Orange Line - Reseda               9.88%

18 Orange Line - Sepulveda            76.65%

19 Orange Line - Tampa                2.01%

20 Orange Line - Valley College       4.55%

21 Orange Line - Woodley              99.86%

22 Orange Line - Woodman              28.05%

23 PURex-Century City                 19.26%

24 RED-Universal City/Studio City     81.77%

25 Vermont BRT - Athens               99.62%
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 54

APPENDIX D: DELAYED EFFECTUATION MAPS
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 55

Map 8. Low Resource Sites Eligible for Delayed Effectuation due to Existing Zoned
Capacity Citywide
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 56

Map 9. Stations Eligible for Delayed Effectuation due to Existing Zoned Capacity
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 57

Map 10. Low Resource Stations Eligible for Delayed Effectuation due to Existing Zoned
Capacity
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 58

Map 11. Sites Eligible for Delayed Effectuation due to Existing Zoned Capacity
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 59

Map 12. Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone Sites Eligible for Delayed Effectuation
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 60

Map 13. Local Historic Resource Sites Eligible for Delayed Effectuation
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 61

Map 14. Low Resource Sites and Low Resource Stations Eligible for Delayed Effectuation
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 62

Map 15. Site Level Eligibility for Delayed Effectuation (Includes sites meeting 50% of
SB79 Capacity, Low Opportunity Area sites, and sites designated as Very High Fire
Hazard Severity Zones, One-Foot Sea Level Rise Areas, Local Historic Resources, and
One-Mile Walking Distance Sites)
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 63

Map 16. Station and Site Level Eligibility for Delayed Effectuation Citywide
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 64

APPENDIX E: REZONING MAPS AND ADDITIONAL MATERIALS
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 65
Map 17. Corridor Transition Expansion Area (in Low Density Zones)

                                                                                                                                                                                    38

38 High and moderate opportunity census tracts in majority low opportunity station areas will be removed
if the station area is eligible for delay.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 66
Map 18. Transit Oriented Incentive Area and Corridor Transition Expansion Areas (in Low
Density Zones)39

39 High and moderate opportunity census tracts in majority low opportunity station areas will be removed
if the station area is eligible for delay.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 67
Map 19. Transit Oriented Incentive Area and Corridor Transition Expansion Areas (in Low
Density Zones)40

40 High and moderate opportunity census tracts in majority low opportunity station areas will be removed
if the station area is eligible for delay.
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 68

List 1. Opportunity Stations
    1. A-Highland Park
    2. A-Southwest Museum
    3. B - Hollywood/Vine
    4. B - Universal City/Studio City
    5. B -Vermont/Beverly
    6. B/G Line-North Hollywood
    7. B/K Extension - Hollywood/Highland
    8. C - LAX/Metro Transit Center
    9. C/K - Aviation/96th St
    10. C/K - Aviation/Century
    11. D Extension - Century City
    12. D Extension - Westwood/VA Hospital
    13. D Extension - Wilshire/Fairfax
    14. D Extension - Wilshire/La Cienega
    15. D Extension/K Extension-Wilshire/La Brea
    16. D Extension/SP-Westwood/UCLA
    17. D Line - Wilshire/Western
    18. D/Vermont BRT - Vermont Sunset
    19. E-Culver City
    20. E-Expo/Bundy
    21. E-Palms
    22. E-Westwood/Rancho Park
    23. E/SP-Expo/Sepulveda
    24. G Line - Balboa
    25. G Line - Canoga
    26. G Line - Chatsworth
    27. G Line - De Soto
    28. G Line - Laurel Canyon
    29. G Line - Nordhoff
    30. G Line - Pierce College
    31. G Line - Reseda
    32. G Line - Sepulveda
    33. G Line - Tampa
    34. G Line - Valley College
    35. G Line - Woodley
    36. G Line - Woodman
    37. K Extension - La Brea/Beverly
    38. K Extension - Pico/San Vicente
    39. K Extension -La Brea/Santa Monica
    40. K Line-Westchester/Veterans
    41. Metro 234 - Victory Boulevard
    42. Metro 234 -Ventura Boulevard
CF 25-1083
PLUM Committee
Page 69

    43. Metro 33 - Venice Boulevard
    44. Metrolink - Glendale
    45. NOHO to Pasadena BRT-Colorado Boulevard
    46. NOHO to Pasadena BRT-E Broadway
    47. NOHO to Pasadena BRT-Eagle Rock Boulevard
    48. NOHO to Pasadena BRT-Hesby Street
    49. NOHO to Pasadena BRT-Townsend Avenue
    50. NOHO to Pasadena BRT-W Alameda Avenue
    51. NOHO to Pasadena BRT-W Riverside Drive
    52. SP-Santa Monica
    53. SP-UCLA Ackerman Union
    54. SP-Ventura/Van Nuys
    55. Vermont BRT - W 3rd St
